AIDDATA

A Research Lab at William & Mary

WORKING PAPER 46
October 2017

Aid, China, and Growth: Evidence from a New
Global Development Finance Dataset

Michael J. Tierney
College of William & Mary and AidData

Abstract
This paper introduces a new dataset of official financing—including foreign aid and other forms of concessional and non-concessional state financing—from China to 138 countries between 2000 and 2014.
We use these data to investigate whether and to what extent Chinese aid affects economic growth in
recipient countries. To account for the endogeneity of aid, we employ an instrumental-variables strategy that relies on exogenous variation in the supply of Chinese aid over time resulting from changes
in Chinese steel production. Variation across recipient countries results from a country’s probability of
receiving aid. Controlling for year- and recipient-fixed effects that capture the levels of these variables,
their interaction provides a powerful and excludable instrument. Our results show that Chinese official
development assistance (ODA) boosts economic growth in recipient countries. For the average recipient
country, we estimate that one additional Chinese ODA project produces a 0.7 percentage point increase
in economic growth two years after the project is committed. We also benchmark the effectiveness of
Chinese aid vis-á-vis the World Bank, the United States, and all members of the OECD’s Development
Assistance Committee (DAC). Our results indicate that Chinese, U.S., and OECD-DAC ODA have positive
effects on economic growth, but we find no robust evidence that World Bank aid promotes growth. We
also find that, irrespective of the funding source, less concessional and more commercially-oriented types
of official finance do not boost economic growth. Finally, we test the popular claim that significant financial support from China impairs the effectiveness of grants and loans from Western donors and lenders.
Our results do not support this claim.
JEL Classification: F35, F43, O19, O47, P33
Keywords: China, Foreign Aid, Official Development Assistance, Aid Effectiveness, Economic Growth

Author Information
Axel Dreher
Heidelberg University, Germany
Andreas Fuchs
Heidelberg University, Germany
Bradley Parks
College of William & Mary and AidData, USA
Austin M. Strange
Harvard University, USA
Michael J. Tierney
College of William & Mary and AidData, USA
The views expressed in AidData Working Papers are those of the authors and should not be attributed
to AidData or funders of AidData’s work, nor do they necessarily reflect the views of any of the many
institutions or individuals acknowledged here.

Acknowledgments
The authors are grateful for generous support from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation,
the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Humanity United, the Academic Research Fund of Singapore’s
Ministry of Education, and the German Research Foundation (DFG) for ”The Economics of Emerging
Donors in Development Cooperation” project at Heidelberg University (DR 640/5-1 and FU 997/1-1).
We thank David Dollar, Quan Li, and participants at the ”Tracking International Aid and Investment from
Developing and Emerging Economies” workshop held at Heidelberg University in September 2017 for
comments on an earlier version of this paper. Excellent research assistance was provided by Melanie
Aguilar-Rojas, Omar Alkhoja, Katherine Armstrong, Isabelle Baucum, Zach Baxter, Ellie Bentley, Liliana
Besosa, Abegail Bilenkin, Allison Bowers, Ariel Cadby-Spicer, Emma Cahoon, Bree Cattelino, Alex Chadwick, Ava Chafin, Anissa Chams-Eddine, Tina Chang, Harrison Chapman, Yining Chen, Yuning Chen,
Zihao Chen, Mengfan Cheng, Michelle Cheng, Tiffanie Choi, Miranda Clarke, Kate Connors, Graeme
Cranston-Cuebas, Catherine Crowley, Hali Czosnek, Jenna Davis, Alex DeGala, Hannah Dempsey, Harsh
Desai, Weiwei Du, Ashton Ebert, Caleb Ebert, Aili Espigh, Claire Etheridge, Ze Fu, Wesley Garner, Melanie
Gilbert, Elizabeth Goldemen, Zijie Gong, Grace Grains, Liz Hall, Thompson Hangen, Sarah Harmon, Ethan
Harrison, Collin Henson, Jasmine Herndon, Elizabeth Herrity, Gabrielle Hibbert, Carlos Holden-Villars,
Keith Holleran, Weijue Huang, Daniel Hughes, Torey Beth Jackson, Jiaorui Jiang, Emmaleah Jones, Amar
Kakirde, Naixin Kang, Ciera Killen, Ian Kirkwood, Emily Koerner, Dylan Kolhoff, Lidia Kovacevic, Martyna
Kowalczyk, Mirian Kreykes, Dinu Krishnamoorthi, Isabella Kron, Karthik Kumarappan, Daniel Lantz, Caroline Lebegue, Jade Li, Yuwei Li, Yaseen Lofti, Adriane Lopez, Flynn Madden, Sarah Martin, George Moss,
Marie Mullins, Qiuyan Ni, Jack Nicol, Brendan O’Connor, Alexandra Pancake, Carol Peng, Grace Perkins,
Charles Perla, Sophia Perrotti, Andrea Powers, Han Qiao, Kamran Rahman, Sarah Reso, David Rice, Natalie
Santos, Faith Savaiano, Dominic Scerbo, Leigh Seitz, William Shangraw, Kaitlan Shaub, Samuel Siewers,
Kyra Solomon, Yifan Su, Elizabeth Sutterlin, Mahathi Tadikonda, Joanna Tan, Rebecca Thorpe, Jessica
Usjanauskas, Emily Walker, Yale Waller, Katherine Walsh, Xinyi Wang, Jason (Jiacheng) Xi, Hanyang Xu,
Darice Xue, Erya Yang, Gaohang Yao, Antonio Tianze Ye, Lincoln Zaleski, Jack Zhang, Yue Zhang, Echo
Zhong, Joana Zhu, and Junrong Zhu.

Contents
1. Introduction ...................................................................................................................................................... 1
2. A New Global Chinese Development Finance Dataset .............................................................................. 6
3. Empirical Strategy .......................................................................................................................................... 11
4. Main Results.................................................................................................................................................... 19
5. Does Chinese Aid Harm the Effectiveness of Western Aid? .................................................................... 23
6. Conclusions .................................................................................................................................................... 26
References ........................................................................................................................................................... 30
Tables and Figures ............................................................................................................................................. 36
Appendix A: The Tracking Underreported Financial Flows (TUFF) Methodology .................................... 46
Appendix B: Additional Tables and Figures in Section 2 .............................................................................. 49
Appendix C: Additional Tables and Figures in Section 3 .............................................................................. 55
Appendix D: Alternative Instruments for Western Aid .................................................................................. 58

“Africa is beginning to do well economically. One of the main reasons for [this] turnaround in the
economic fate of Africa is the emergence of the emerging nations in general and China in particular.”
- Melas Zenawi, former Prime Minister of Ethiopia, 2012

1. Introduction
1

Evidence on the effects of aid on economic growth is mixed. Some studies present evidence of
positive impacts (Clemens et al. 2012; Galiani et al. 2017). Others detect null effects (Rajan and
Subramanian 2008; Doucouliagos and Paldam 2009; Dreher and Langlotz 2017). Still others find that
aid accelerates growth only under specific conditions (Burnside and Dollar 2000; Ouattara and Strobl
2008; Minoiu and Reddy 2010; Minasyan et al. 2017). Virtually all of these studies evaluate the
overseas development activities of Western donors and multilateral development banks, such as the
2

World Bank. These donors and lenders have wide-ranging interests and objectives (e.g., responding
to public health challenges, providing relief to internally displaced persons, protecting biodiversity,
removing land mines, or cementing military alliances), many of which are orthogonal or only loosely
related to the goal of catalyzing economic growth.

However, these established donors and lenders no longer dominate the development finance market
(Dreher et al. 2011; Walz and Ramachandran 2011; Custer et al. 2015; Fuchs and Müller 2017).
Countries like Brazil, China, India, Iran, and Saudi Arabia now spend billions of dollars throughout the
developing world to build roads, dams, bridges, railways, airports, seaports, and electricity grids.
China, in particular, has positioned itself as a leading global financier of the “hardware” of economic
development. The scale and scope of its overseas infrastructure activities now rival or exceed that of
other major donors and lenders. Its flagship “One Belt, One Road” (OBOR) initiative—a “Belt” of road,
rail, port, and pipeline projects that create an infrastructure corridor from China to Central Asia and
Europe and a “Maritime Silk Road” that links China to South and Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and
Africa through a series of deep-water ports along the littoral areas of the Indian Ocean—has “little
precedent in modern history, promising more than $1 trillion in infrastructure and spanning more than
3

60 countries” (Perlez and Huang 2017). Between 2000 and 2014, the Chinese government committed
1

For recent surveys of the aid effectiveness literature, see Werker (2012), Dreher et al. (2017), and Doucouliagos (forthcoming).

2

Throughout this study, we refer to the United States, other donors of the OECD’s Development Assistance Committee (DAC),
and the World Bank as “Western” donors. We use these terms interchangeably with the terms “traditional” and “established.”
3

Beijing also invests significantly in health, education, water and sanitation, agriculture, and other social and productive sectors.
1

more than U.S.$350 billion in official finance to 140 countries and territories in Africa, Asia and the
4

Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe. China’s
annual provision of official finance now rivals that of the United States (see summary statistics in
Section 3), and in some countries, China has become the single largest source of official finance
(Campbell et al. 2012; Greenhill 2013).

China’s emphasis on economic and social infrastructure stands in contrast to Western suppliers of
development finance, which have scaled back their involvement in the infrastructure sector (Dollar
2008; Hicks et al. 2008; Tierney et al. 2011). Infrastructural investments can ease key constraints to
economic growth and spur growth accelerations (Deininger and Okidi 2003; Calderón and Servén
2010a, 2010b; Khandker et al. 2013, 2014).

Therefore, it is plausible that Chinese aid might have

stronger economic growth impacts than aid from other bilateral and multilateral donors.

However, there are also major differences in the types of “aid” that China and its Western counterparts
provide to developing countries, and these compositional differences may enhance or diminish the
economic growth effects of any financial support that is supplied. China, as we document in this study,
provides relatively little aid in the strictest sense of the term (development projects with a grant
element of 25 percent or higher). A large proportion of the financial support that China provides to
other countries comes in the form of export credits and market or close-to-market rate loans. Western
donors and lenders, on the other hand, generally provide development finance on highly concessional
terms and have less aggressive export credit programs.

On the other hand, some analysts argue that Chinese “aid” will likely dampen the growth prospects of
5

its recipient and borrower countries (Crouigneau and Hiault 2006; Onjala forthcoming). First, if China
finances unproductive, “white elephant” capital investment projects that deliver weak financial and
4

These estimates are derived from the dataset described in Section 2 of this paper. Official finance consists of Official
Development Assistance (ODA), which is the strictest definition of aid used by OECD-DAC members, and Other Official Flows
(OOF). Whereas the former must have development intent and a minimum level of concessionality (a 25 percent or higher grant
element), the latter lacks development intent and/or the level of concessionality that is required of ODA.
5

Tonga provides a case in point. As explained by Brant (2015), “[c]oncessional loans from China account for 65 percent of the
nation’s debt stock, and it will be difficult for Tonga to service these debt obligations. Despite high-level overtures to Beijing,
former Tongan Prime Minister Lord Tu'ivakano was unsuccessful in having these loans converted to grants. Repayment of one
loan set to begin in 2013–14 would have accounted for over 17 percent of government revenue. China recently agreed to defer
repayments for five years, but the original 20-year loan term does not change, meaning that annual repayments will be larger
when they begin in 2018–19. Pacific Island communities are wondering what will happen if they cannot repay.”
2

economic returns, host governments may find it difficult to service their debts and cover their recurrent
expenditures (Christiansen 2010; Dabla-Norris et al. 2012). They might also find themselves using
more public funding than would otherwise be necessary to rehabilitate infrastructure that has fallen
into a state of disrepair. Second, if a host government contracts excessive amount of debt through
Chinese loans, it could deter foreign investment (Claessens et al. 1996; Pattillo et al. 2003; Ahlquist
2006). Third, a host government that has taken on a high level of Chinese debt might experience
foreign exchange shortages, which can lead to import shortages and constrain export growth (Iyoha
1999). Fourth, unsustainable debt levels can lead to expectations of inflation and exchange rate
depreciation (Fischer 1993). Any or all of these factors could reduce economic growth (Kumar and
Woo 2010).

6

However, in spite of the increasingly important role that concessional and non-concessional state
financing from China plays in many countries around the world, no studies have rigorously analyzed
7

the effectiveness of Chinese “aid” with global, cross-country panel data. The reason for this gap in the
literature follows from the absence of comprehensive data. China’s government considers its
international development finance program to be a “state secret” (Bräutigam 2009: 2). It does not
disclose comprehensive or detailed information about the overseas development projects that it
8

funds. Nor does it publish a bilateral breakdown of its international development finance activities.

We address this information gap by introducing a new dataset of official financing—including foreign
aid and other forms of concessional and non-concessional state financing—from China to five major
world regions (Africa, the Middle East, Asia and the Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, and
Central and Eastern Europe) over the 2000-2014 period. This dataset was constructed with the
Tracking Underreported Financial Flows (TUFF) methodology developed by Strange et al. (2017a,
2017b), which triangulates information from four types of sources—English, Chinese and
local-language news reports; official statements from Chinese ministries, embassies, and economic

6

Kumar and Woo (2010) estimate that, on average, a ten-percentage point increase in a country’s debt-to-GDP ratio yields a
reduction in annual per capita income growth of 0.2 percentage points.
7

Dreher et al. (2016) focus on the localized economic development effects of Chinese aid within African countries only. Busse et
al. (2016) analyze the growth effects of Chinese aid in Africa. However, they address endogeneity concerns with a GMM method
that relies on internal instruments which are unlikely to be excludable.
8

These data likely have not been published by the Chinese government for reasons related to political will and capacity. On
these points, see Lancaster (2007) and Strange et al. (2013).
3

and commercial counselor offices; the aid and debt information management systems of finance and
planning ministries in counterpart countries; and case study and field research undertaken by scholars
and NGOs—in order to minimize the impact of incomplete or inaccurate information. The dataset
includes 4,304 projects financed with Chinese official development assistance (ODA) and other official
flows (OOF) in 138 countries and territories around the world. We then use this novel dataset to
estimate the effect of “Chinese aid” on recipient-country economic growth and on the effectiveness of
financial support from more established donors and lenders.

9

More specifically, we seek to answer four questions. First, does the receipt of Chinese aid promote
economic growth? Second, which types of Chinese aid are most effective on this dimension? Third,
how do the growth effects of Chinese aid compare to those of Western donors and lenders? Fourth,
does China’s aid undermine the effectiveness of Western donors and lenders?

To identify whether and to what extent Chinese aid affects economic growth, we use a variant of an
instrumental variable (IV) suggested in Dreher et al. (2016) for aid committed to subnational regions
within African countries: the annual production volume of Chinese steel interacted with the recipient
province’s probability of receiving aid. The Chinese government considers steel to be a strategically
important commodity and therefore maintains excess production capacity. This policy choice by the
Chinese government results in a surplus of steel, some of which China uses for aid projects around the
world (Dreher et al. 2016). In years when production volumes are high, China’s supply of aid is also
higher. We follow Nunn and Qian’s (2014) study on U.S. food aid and conflict to estimate which share
of this year-to-year change in supply of aid transmits to a specific recipient country. To this end, we
calculate the share of years during our sample period in which a country received positive amounts of
Chinese aid. We expect countries with a higher probability of receiving aid from China will be more
severely affected by year-to-year fluctuations in the supply of Chinese aid resulting from its production
of steel.

9

For ease of exposition, we will use the term “aid” in this paper to refer broadly to any types of official finance from a donor (or
lender) to a recipient (or borrower). In cases when we wish to reference the narrower (OECD-DAC) definition of aid, we use the
term Official Development Assistance (ODA). In cases when we wish to reference concessional and non-concessional official
financing that does not qualify as ODA, we use the term Other Official Flows (OOF). Finally, when we wish to reference the sum
of ODA and OOF, we use the term Official Finance (OF).
4

The intuition of our strategy is akin to that of a difference-in-difference approach, since we investigate
a differential effect of Chinese steel production on the amount of aid to countries with a high
(compared to a low) probability of receiving Chinese aid. The identifying assumption is that growth in
countries with differing probabilities of receiving aid will not be affected differently by changes in steel
production, other than via the impact of aid, controlling for recipient-country- and year-fixed effects
and the other variables in the model. In other words, as in any difference-in-difference setting, we rely
on an exogenous treatment and the absence of different pre-trends across groups. Controlling for
period-fixed effects, Chinese steel production cannot be correlated with the error term and is thus
exogenous to aid. For different pre-trends to exist, these trends across countries with a high compared
to a low probability of receiving aid would have to vary in tandem with period-to-period changes in
steel production. We test this possibility below. We apply this strategy across two types of Chinese
official financing—ODA and less concessional and more commercially-oriented financial flows (OOF).

10

We do so in the aggregate as well as across different aid sectors.

To facilitate comparisons between China and other donors and lenders, we also provide estimates of
whether aid from the United States, the OECD-DAC as a whole, and the World Bank affect economic
growth. For each of these donors and lenders, our identification strategies rely on variation over time
that comes from the respective aid budgets of each donor. Variation across recipients results from the
recipients’ probability of receiving aid. Broadly following Temple and Van de Sijpe (2017), our
instrument is the respective donor’s aid budget interacted with each recipient country’s probability of
receiving aid. We also apply this instrument to China, so that we use the same type of instrument for all
four donors. While aid budgets are arguably less exogenous than China’s steel production, this
approach has the advantage of producing comparable local average treatment effects (LATE) across
11

donors.

After comparing how aid from these donors impacts economic growth in recipient countries, we turn
to the popular but untested claim that Chinese foreign aid might undermine the effectiveness of
Western aid (e.g., Naím 2007; Brazys et al 2017). We perform several statistical tests that examine
whether aid from Western donors registers different levels of economic growth in countries that are
10

For an extended discussion of the differences between the types of Chinese development finance see Dreher et al.,
forthcoming,a.
11

For ease of exposition, we will use the term “donors” to refer to both donors and lenders in the empirical section of the paper.
5

Chinese “aid darlings”—major recipients of aid from Beijing—and other countries that have not received
large amounts of Chinese aid.

Our results suggest that Chinese ODA boosts short-term economic growth in recipient countries. In
contrast, we find no evidence that the same is true for less concessional and more commercially
oriented forms of Chinese official finance (OOF). Comparing Chinese aid with aid flows from the
United States, OECD-DAC, and World Bank, we find no evidence that Chinese aid is inferior to aid
from established donors on economic growth grounds. Nor do our results provide any evidence that
Chinese aid undermines the economic growth effects of aid from Western donors.

We proceed in the following manner. In Section 2, we introduce the first global, project-level database
of Chinese official finance. We also provide a descriptive overview of China’s official finance activities
around the world. In Section 3, we introduce our instrumental-variables approach to estimate the
possible causal effects of Chinese aid on growth. We also elaborate the identification strategies used
to compare the growth effects of Chinese and Western aid. In Section 4, we present our main results
and discuss their implications. Section 5 investigates the potential effects of Chinese aid on the
effectiveness of Western aid. We conclude the paper in Section 6 with a discussion of avenues for
future research.

2. A New Global Chinese Development Finance Dataset
In this paper, we introduce a new dataset that measures foreign aid and other forms of concessional
and non-concessional state financing from China to the developing world between 2000 and 2014.
More specifically, the dataset captures ODA and OOF from China to 138 countries and territories in
five regions of the world: Africa, the Middle East, Asia and the Pacific,
13

Caribbean, and Central and Eastern Europe.

12

Latin America and the

It includes 4,304 Chinese development projects (worth

approximately U.S.$351 billion) that were officially committed, in implementation, or completed
between 2000 and 2014. The dataset also includes 630 pledges of support worth an estimated

12

We further subdivide this world region into Central and North Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific.

13

The full datasets include data on Chinese ODA and OOF to 140 countries and territories. However, Kiribati received only one
project and it was cancelled, which is why it does not appear in the above statistic. We also exclude Palestine from our analysis.
6

U.S.$137 billion. We could not find evidence that these projects reached the official commitment
stage, and exclude these records from our analysis.

14

Figure 1 illustrates the distribution of project

status over time. Unsurprisingly, projects announced in recent years are less likely to have reached the
completion stage than those announced in earlier years.

The dataset was constructed using the TUFF methodology. This methodology was initially developed
by several authors of this paper—in collaboration with AidData, a research lab at the College of William
& Mary (Strange et al. 2017b). It codifies a set of open-source data collection procedures that make it
possible to identify detailed financial, operational, and locational information about officially financed
projects that are not voluntarily or systematically recorded by sovereign donors and lenders through
international reporting systems, such as the OECD’s Creditor Reporting System (CRS) or the
International Aid Transparency Initiative (IATI). This methodology, which is described at greater length
in Appendix A and Strange et al. (2017b), standardizes and synthesizes large volumes of information
primarily from four sources: English, Chinese and local-language news reports; documents from
Chinese ministries, embassies, and economic and commercial counselor offices; the aid and debt
information management systems of finance and planning ministries in counterpart countries; and
case study and field research undertaken by scholars and NGOs. It represents a systematic,
transparent, and replicable way of tracking the identifiable universe of projects financed by donors
and lenders who do not publish official finance data at the project level. The methodology and the
datasets that it has produced have been subjected to peer-review, stress-tested, and substantially
improved over time (e.g., Muchapondwa et al. 2016; Strange et al. 2017a; Dreher et al. forthcoming,a).

TUFF-derived data have now been used in dozens of publications in economics and political science
(e.g., Hendrix and Noland 2014; Dreher and Fuchs 2015; Hsiang and Sekar 2016; Kilama 2016;
Hernandez 2017; Strange et al. 2017a). The first empirical application of the TUFF methodology was a
dataset that measured 21st-century Chinese official financial flows to Africa (Strange et al. 2013,
2017a). This dataset has been used to study China’s motivations for aid giving in Africa and the
intended and unintended impacts of these financial flows in one region of the world (BenYishay et al.

14

The dataset also includes 44 projects worth approximately U.S.$38 billion that were suspended or cancelled; and so-called
“umbrella” projects that cover a number of specific sub-projects, of which 348 reached commitment stage (worth approximately
U.S.$237 billion). We also exclude all of these project records from our analysis and from the descriptive statistics presented in
this paper.
7

2016; Blair and Roessler 2016; Isaksson and Kotsadam 2016; Brazys et al. 2017; Hernandez 2017;
Strange et al. 2017a; Dreher et al. forthcoming,a). Apart from the study of contemporary Chinese aid,
researchers have adapted and applied the TUFF methodology to identify grants and loans from Gulf
Cooperation Council (GCC) members (Minor et al. 2014), under-reported humanitarian assistance
flows from Western and non-Western sources (Ghose 2017), foreign direct investment from Western
and non-Western sources (Bunte et al. 2017), and pre-2000 foreign aid flows from China to Africa
(Morgan and Zheng 2017).

The dataset introduced and used in this paper builds upon and expands the geographical and
temporal scope of the earlier dataset of Chinese official financial flows to Africa constructed in
collaboration with AidData (see Strange et al. 2017a). The global patterns of Chinese aid allocation
described in this section demonstrate some striking similarities with Chinese aid allocation in Africa,
but they also capture some important substantive differences across regions and time.

The dataset allows one to distinguish between three different types of Chinese official finance.
“ODA-like” projects are comparable to ODA in that they are nominally intended to promote economic
or social development and they are provided at levels of concessionality that are consistent with the
ODA criteria established by the OECD-DAC. “OOF-like” projects are also financed by the Chinese
government, but either have a non-developmental purpose or are insufficiently concessional to qualify
as ODA. “Vague Official Finance (OF)” projects represent official financial flows where there is
insufficient open-source information to make a clear determination as to whether the flows are more
akin to ODA or OOF (Dreher et al. forthcoming,a). Figure 2 presents the distribution of these three
categories of Chinese official finance over time. The graph in the left panel demonstrates that the vast
majority of Chinese projects each year are ODA-like. However, as the right panel shows, these projects
represent only 21 percent of total Chinese official finance in financial terms between 2000 and 2014.

These patterns make more sense when one analyzes the sectoral distribution of Chinese official
finance.

15

The conventional wisdom—that China funds the “hardware” of development—is consistent

with the descriptive statistics in Figure 3, which ranks sectors by the number of dollars committed.
China invests significantly more money in the “hardware” areas of energy generation, transportation,
15

We use 3-digit sector classifications based on OECD purpose codes.
8

industry, mining, and construction than it does on the “software” side of development in sectors like
education, health, and governance. However, a measure of project counts, rather than dollar amounts,
paints a very different picture, as can be seen in the same figure. Because the size of “software”
projects are substantially smaller than the large hardware projects that dominate the news, the
measure using project counts actually shows health, education, and governance as the most
prominent sectors. These smaller, software projects are disproportionately ODA-like, while the large
infrastructure projects tend to be funded with OOF-like loans (see Appendix B1).

A nuanced pattern also emerges when one examines the countries that receive the “most” Chinese
official finance. The Chinese State Council’s official White Papers from 2011 and 2014 claim that the
vast majority of Chinese aid flows to Africa, rather than other regions of the world.

16

This view is

reinforced by press accounts (Poplak 2016) and academic sources (Alden 2006; Carmody 2016: ch. 3)
that emphasize a new, Chinese-led “scramble for Africa” in the 21st century. This is also what one
observes in our global dataset (see Appendix B2). African countries received a large proportion (59
percent) of the total number of projects financed by China between 2000 and 2014. Seven of the
top-ten recipient countries are African countries (Appendix B3).

However, a very different picture emerges when one counts total dollars, rather than projects,
committed. These cross-country rankings reflect the fact that the number of “mega-projects” in
Southeast Asia, the former Soviet Union, and Latin America dwarfs the number of “mega-projects” in
Africa.

17

Of the 25 largest Chinese projects in financial terms, only six are located in Africa and the

largest is #13 on that list (see Appendices B4 and B5 for details). More broadly, if one measures the
average size of officially-financed Chinese projects in terms of constant dollars, only one African
18

country is on the list of top 20 recipients (South Africa at #8; see also Appendix B6).

In Figures 4 and

16

China’s 2014 White Paper (State Council 2014) puts total annual foreign aid from China at about U.S.$4.8 billion (U.S.$14.41
billion over 2010-2012). Kitano (2016) arrives at a slightly higher estimate of U.S.$5.2 billion (in 2012). The dataset introduced in
this paper can be used to generate an estimate of global, annual Chinese ODA. Our estimate of average annual Chinese ODA
(from 2000-2012), which is measured as the sum of all officially committed projects, projects in implementation, and completed
projects during this time period, is $4.96 billion. Therefore, our global estimates of Chinese ODA are quite similar to those
produced by Kitano (2016) and the Chinese government itself. However, it should be noted that neither Kitano (2016) nor the
Chinese Government separately measures other sources of Chinese official financing (i.e., OOF). A major advantage of our
dataset is that it is at the project level, which allows for analysis at various levels of disaggregation.

17

We define “mega-projects” as those projects whose financial value exceeds U.S.$ 1 billion.

18

Appendix B7 shows the top-ten recipients of total Chinese official finance from 2000-2014. If no country in a particular region
is ranked in the top 10, we list the highest ranked country in each region along with its rank and the total amount of Chinese
9

5, we present maps of the global allocation of Chinese official finance, which further highlights
differences in the geographic allocation of resources depending on whether one considers the
number of committed projects or their reported financial values.

In addition to illustrating the broad empirical patterns that emerge from this new dataset, we want to
draw attention to several limitations related to missing data that one needs to keep in mind while
conducting analysis. First, as described above, because of insufficiently specific information in the
underlying data sources, roughly 8 percent of the project records and almost 16 percent of the project
dollars are coded as “Vague Official Finance.” These projects are officially financed, but it is not
possible (based upon the underlying source documentation) to make a clear determination of whether
they qualify as ODA or OOF. Therefore, one needs to explicitly account for this uncertainty.

19

Second, a substantial and increasing proportion of project records lack information about the financial
amounts committed. The percentage of projects that are missing financial amounts ranges from 20
percent in 2001 to 48 percent in 2014 (Appendix B8). Some types of flows are particularly likely to lack
financial amounts. For example, over 90 percent of projects that support technical assistance activities
and scholarships lack financial amounts. However, loans include financial amounts 92 percent of the
time. This missing data problem should be a second-order problem for researchers interested in the
aggregate effects of aid on outcomes since loans (where financial information is mostly complete) are
typically the largest flows, while technical assistance projects and scholarships (where financial
information is relatively incomplete) tend to be small-scale flows (Appendix B9).

A third missing data problem is the incomplete coverage of the Chinese government institutions that
financed the projects in the dataset. While the dataset identifies dozens of funding agencies within the
Chinese government (including various ministries, Chinese embassies, policy banks, state-owned news
agencies), 78 percent of the project records, which reflect 20 percent of the financial value tracked in
official finance allocated to that country as it appears in the dataset. The most important recipient of Chinese official finance is
Russia, followed by Pakistan and Angola.
19

In this paper, we do so by separately analyzing the effects of Chinese ODA and OOF, where we include Vague OF flows in the
latter. We think it is reasonable to assume that most Vague OF is actually OOF since many of the observable attributes of
projects coded as Vague OF (e.g., projects in the infrastructure and economic production sectors, projects financed with loans,
projects financed by China Development Bank and China Exim Bank) resemble the attributes of OOF projects more so than
ODA projects. Therefore, comparisons of the effects of Chinese ODA and OOF (including Vague OF) should help reveal
differences in the effects of Chinese ODA and OOF.
10

the dataset, lack information about the main funding agency responsible for the project. To the extent
that the effectiveness of Chinese aid is conditional upon variation in the Chinese government
institutions that fund aid projects, this is another limitation of the data that must be acknowledged.

20

Finally, it should be noted that the TUFF methodology may be subject to some degree of detection
bias—in terms of its ability to identify projects and project financial amounts in countries where English
is not the official language (Dreher et al. forthcoming,a; Kilby 2017). However, Muchapondwa et al.
(2016) use a “ground-truthing” methodology in Uganda and South Africa to test the reliability of the
TUFF methodology and find a generally high level of correspondence between the Chinese
development project data collected through the TUFF methodology and the data collected through
the systematic application of field-based data collection protocols by local enumerators. They also find
that the TUFF methodology is able to identify significantly more projects than field-based methods.

3. Empirical Strategy
Leveraging this new dataset, we now analyze the causal effects of Chinese aid on economic growth in
all recipient countries that are not classified by the World Bank as high-income countries.

21

Our

empirical approach follows Dreher et al.’s (2016) analysis of how Chinese aid affects economic
development at the local level within African countries. We estimate the following regression equation:

𝐺𝑟𝑜𝑤𝑡ℎ!,! = β! 𝐴𝑖𝑑!"#,!,!!! + β! 𝑝𝑜𝑝!,!!! + β! 𝜂! + β! 𝜇! + 𝜀!,! ,

(1)

where Growthi,t is recipient country i’s yearly real GDP per capita growth in year t; AidCHN,i,t-2 is a
measure of Chinese aid commitments two years before; 𝑝𝑜𝑝!,!!! stands for the recipient country’s
(logged) population size, 𝜂! and 𝜇! represent country- and year-fixed effects, respectively, and ԑ is
the error term. Standard errors are clustered at the recipient-country level.

20

We are partially able to address this limitation by decomposing Chinese official finance and separately analyzing Chinese
ODA and OOF, as MOFCOM is known to provide the bulk of China’s ODA while OOF projects are often financed by China Exim
Bank and China Development Bank.

21

See https://datahelpdesk.worldbank.org/knowledgebase/articles/906519-world-bank-country-and-lendinggroups
accessed September 13, 2017).
11

(last

We use two measures of 𝐴𝑖𝑑!"#,!,!!! : the logged financial value of Chinese aid projects and the
number of Chinese aid projects.

22

The former comes with the obvious advantage that it accounts for

the size of projects. However, one important caveat is that 39 percent of the projects lack information
on their financial value. While we present results using financial values of Chinese aid projects, we test
the robustness of our results using counts of the number of projects.

Of course, Chinese aid may be endogenous to economic growth. One likely source of endogeneity is
reverse causation in which recipient economic features influence Chinese aid allocation. On the one
hand, the Chinese government might provide more aid to poorer countries, which would be in line
with its official goal to make “great efforts to ensure its aid benefits as many needy people as possible”
(State Council 2011). On the other hand, the Chinese government might prefer to channel more aid to
wealthy countries if these recipients provide more attractive commercial opportunities (Dreher et al.
forthcoming,a).

23

It should also be noted that a large number of variables that are excluded from our

models are potentially correlated with Chinese aid as well as with economic growth, introducing
omitted variables bias.

To account for endogeneity concerns, we employ an instrumental-variables strategy. Specifically, we
estimate the following first-stage regression:

𝐴𝑖𝑑!"#,!,!!! =γ! 𝑆𝑡𝑒𝑒𝑙!!! ∗ 𝑝!"#,! +γ! 𝑝𝑜𝑝!,!!! + γ! 𝜂! + γ! 𝜇! + 𝑢!,!!! .

(2)

Our instrument for AidCHN,i,,t-2 is the interaction of (lagged and logged) Chinese steel production
𝑆𝑡𝑒𝑒𝑙!!! , which varies over time, and the probability of receiving Chinese aid 𝑝!"#,! , which varies across
recipient countries. We calculate the probability of receiving Chinese aid as the share of years during
24

More

!"
!!! 𝑝!"#,!,! ,

where

our sample period (2000-2014) a country has received positive amounts of Chinese aid, 𝑝!"#,! .
precisely, we define the probability of receiving aid from China as 𝑝!"#,! =

22

!
!"

Note that we added a value of one before taking logs, in order to not lose observations with zero aid.

23

Empirical research on Chinese aid allocation demonstrates a strong, negative correlation between Chinese ODA and the
per-capita income of recipient countries (Dreher and Fuchs 2015; Dreher et al. forthcoming,a). However, Chinese OOF (in
Africa) tends to favor creditworthy countries (with higher loan repayment capacity) and countries that have higher levels of
imports to China (Dreher et al. forthcoming,a).
24

This directly follows the analyses in Nunn and Qian (2014) and Dreher and Langlotz (2017). Also see Werker et al. (2009).
12

𝑝!"#,!,! is a binary variable that equals one when recipient 𝑖 received a positive amount of aid from
China in year 𝑦.

One might be concerned that this instrument violates the exclusion restriction because the probability
of receiving aid may directly affect economic growth (for the same reasons described above).
However, our growth regressions control for the effect of the probability of receiving aid as well as
steel production through the inclusion of recipient-country- and year-fixed effects. Given that we
control for the effects of the probability of receiving aid, its interaction with an exogenous variable
results in an exogenous instrument under mild assumptions (Bun and Harrison 2014; Nizalova and
Murtazashvili 2016). The intuition of this approach is that of a difference-in-difference regression,
where we investigate a differential effect of Chinese steel production on the amount of aid to countries
with a high compared to a low probability of receiving Chinese aid. The identifying assumption is that
growth in countries with differing probabilities of receiving Chinese aid will not be affected differently
by changes in steel production, other than via the impact of aid, controlling for recipient-country- and
year-fixed effects. In other words, as in any difference-in-difference setting, we rely on an exogenous
treatment and the absence of different pre-trends across groups. Controlled for year-fixed effects,
Chinese steel production cannot be correlated with the error term and is thus clearly exogenous to aid.
In order for different pre-trends to exist, these trends across countries with a high compared to a low
probability of receiving aid from China would have to vary in tandem with year-to-year changes in steel
production.

Following Christian and Barrett (2017), we plot the variation in Chinese steel production in concert with
the variation in per-capita aid and growth for two different groups that are defined according to the
median of the probability to receive aid. Appendix C1 plots these graphs. The results give little reason
to believe that the parallel trends assumption is violated in our case. More precisely, the
probability-specific trends in aid and growth, respectively, seem rather parallel across the regular
recipients (those with a probability of receiving aid that is above the median) and the irregular
recipients (those with a probability of receiving aid that is below the median). There is also no obvious
non-linear trend in regular compared to irregular recipients that is similar for aid and growth.

13

The exogeneity of our interacted instrument would be violated if changes in steel production would
affect recipient country growth differentially in countries with a high probability to receive aid
compared to countries with a low probability to receive aid for reasons unrelated to aid. Steel
production is arguably correlated with a large number of other variables. Some of those are likely to
differentially affect growth in these groups of countries via aid exclusively. For example, if steel
production is correlated with other inputs in aid projects, like cement or timber, our LATE would
capture the combined effects of these inputs, which would not threaten our identification strategy.
Steel production could however also be correlated with overall export volumes or foreign direct
investments. Potentially, frequent recipients of Chinese aid projects are also frequent host countries of
investment projects and those with close trade ties. This could imply that any differential effects of aid
on growth that we observe could in result from trade and investment rather than aid. To address this
concern, we control for the yearly volume of Chinese FDI inflows (from UNCTAD)

25

and Chinese

exports (from the WDI) interacted with the probability to receive Chinese aid in a robustness test
below.

Our specification deviates from the extant literature on aid and growth in a number of ways (e.g.,
Clemens et al. 2012; Dreher and Langlotz 2017; Galiani et al. 2017). First, we analyze ODA and OOF as
separate regressors. Existing literature on aid and growth focuses exclusively on the potential growth
st

effects of ODA. However, ODA is only one component of 21 -century development finance. During
our period of study (2000-2014), most of the official finance provided by China (62-77 percent) and the
26

World Bank (64 percent) was not Official Development Assistance (ODA).
finance provided by the United States and the OECD-DAC was ODA.

27

By contrast, most of official

This source of variation might

25

Specifically, we used data from the World Investment Report’s 2017 Annex table 01 (see http://unctad.org/en/
Pages/DIAE/World%20Investment%20Report/Annex-Tables.aspx, last accessed October 6, 2017).

26

The World Bank has two different funding windows. Its International Development Association (IDA) offers poor countries
access to grants and highly concessional loans (ODA), while its International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
offers loans on non-concessional terms (OOF). Between 2000 and 2014, 64.3 percent of official finance flows from the World
Bank were channeled through the IBRD (OOF) and the remaining 35.6 percent were channeled through the IDA (ODA).
Similarly, only 21.6 percent of total official finance from China seems to meet the OECD-DAC criteria for ODA. World Bank data
were retrieved from https://data.worldbank.org/ on 12 September 2017. Data on Chinese official finance were drawn from the
dataset that is introduced in this paper.
27

Between 2000 and 2014, the United States provided U.S.$394.6 billion of official finance to other countries. 93 percent of
these official finance flows (U.S.$366.4 billion) qualified as ODA and 7 percent (U.S.$28.1 billion) qualified as OOF. Between
2000 and 2014, the OECD-DAC as a whole provided U.S.$1.753 trillion of official finance to other countries; 80.6 percent of
these flows (U.S.$1.413 trillion) qualified as bilateral ODA and 19.4 percent (U.S.$339.2 billion) qualified as OOF. Data retrieved
from http://stats.oecd.org/ and AidData’s Core Research Release, Version 3.1 on 6 October 2017.
14

help to explain heterogeneous “aid” impacts. Indeed, Cordella and Ulku (2007) find that the provision
of more concessional forms of development finance increases growth in poor and highly indebted
countries. Similarly, Khomba and Trew (2017) conclude that grants are more effective than loans at
generating (localized) growth effects.

28

To account for this potential source of variation, we vary our

definition of “treatment” and separately investigate the growth effects of more concessional finance
(ODA) and less concessional (or market-based) forms of official finance (OOF) from China. In order to
do so, we use the interaction of China’s steel production with the probability of recipient country i to
receive Chinese ODA or OOF, respectively.

Second, we rely on commitments rather than disbursements of aid. Given that aid should only affect
development after its disbursement, the latter are preferable over the former. However,
comprehensive data on disbursements of Chinese aid are not available and are virtually impossible to
measure with open-source data collection methods. In our main specification, we lag commitments by
two years in order to allow for sufficient time for commitments to affect outcomes. We base our lag
duration on a subset of 300 projects in the dataset for which there is information on the actual project
29

start and end dates.

The observed average project duration amounts to 664 days, and thus we apply

a two-year lag in our baseline regressions.

30

While these data suggest two years may be an

appropriate lag period, they are not necessarily a representative sample of projects (and potentially
suffer from selection effects), so we perform analyses using various lag periods.

Third, most previous studies focus on either aid per capita or aid as a share of GDP. One disadvantage
of this approach is that it restricts the effect of population or GDP to be the same as those of aid. As
Annen and Kosempel (2017) point out, there are no obvious theoretical reasons for using this
approach. Their simulations also show that using aid-over-GDP ratios introduces a downward bias
relative to using levels of aid. Following Ahmed (2016), among others, we instead use (logged) aid in
levels as variable of interest and control for population size.

28

On the other hand, Odedokun (2004) provides evidence that the receipt of grants discourages domestic tax collection and
undermines fiscal discipline, and Dovern and Nunnenkamp (2007) find that grants do not provide larger growth dividends than
loans.
29

In subsetting the data, we exclude projects with a project length of zero days, which is typically the case for monetary grants.
However, even in these cases, the recipient government will need considerable time to implement these projects, which makes
a time lag necessary.
30

Historical Chinese aid data also reveal a median of two years between project start and completion (data from Bartke 1989).
15

Fourth, we employ annual data rather than data averaged over three-, four-, or five-year periods (e.g.,
Clemens et al. 2012; Dreher and Lohmann 2015; Dreher and Langlotz 2017; Galiani et al. 2017). In
order for our tests to show an effect of aid that actually exists with an 80 percent probability, we would
require several thousand observations rather than the sample of roughly 420 observations that we
31

would have if we averaged our data over five-year-periods.

This is a broader empirical challenge

within the aid effectiveness literature (Ioannidis et al. forthcoming).

32

However, while much of the

literature focusing on Western donors makes use of samples starting in the 1970s, the first year we
have comprehensive, global data on Chinese aid is 2000.

33

Given that the use of yearly data

substantially increases the power of our tests, our main regressions use yearly lags of aid rather than
averaging data over longer periods of time, in keeping with Dreher et al. (2016). Our results must
therefore be interpreted differently than most of the related aid effectiveness literature. We test
whether aid affects growth in the short-run. That is, we can test whether the aid is spent in the receiving
country (rather than re-directed abroad) and whether it creates spillover effects in the local economy
but we can only provide tentative evidence on whether it creates longer-lasting effects by looking at
various lag lengths.

Fifth, we differ from much of the extant literature in our choice of control variables. In keeping with
Dreher et al. (2016), our main regressions are parsimonious. Our main regressions control for fixed
effects for years τ and countries η and the (logged) population size of recipient countries popi. Typical
regressions in the aid effectiveness literature include additional control variables such as initial-period
per-capita GDP, ethnic fractionalization, assassinations, proxies for institutional and economic policies,
and proxies for financial development (e.g., Burnside and Dollar 2000). All of these variables are
arguably endogenous and introduce bias even if aid is instrumented using a perfectly excludable
instrumental variable. Given that our exclusion restriction holds absent the inclusion of these control
variables, their omission reduces the efficiency of the estimator, but does not bias our estimates.

34

31

This high number of required observations is driven by our fixed-effects setting, as both country- and time-fixed effects
capture most of the variation in the dependent variable so that the variation caused by aid conditional on these fixed effects is
rather small.

32

According to Ioannidis et al. (forthcoming), only about one percent of the 1,779 estimates in the aid-and-growth literature
surveyed have adequate power (see also Dreher and Langlotz 2017; Doucouliagos forthcoming).
33

Chinese aid volumes are also available for years prior to 1987 (Dreher and Fuchs 2015) but these values are not necessarily
comparable to post-2000 aid as they are gathered based on different data collection procedures.

34

We however test robustness by including the variables most commonly used in the aid effectiveness literature.
16

To compare growth effects across donors, we also run similar estimations for aid from three other
major donors—the United States, the OECD-DAC, and the World Bank. Broadly following Temple and
Van de Sijpe (2017), we use the interaction of a given donor’s total ODA and OOF budgets in a year
with the recipient-specific probability of receiving aid from that donor. To enable comparisons of the
effect of Chinese aid on growth to those of other donors, we rely on China’s aid budget interacted with
a recipient’s probability of receiving aid to predict year-to-year changes in aid. By following this
strategy, we obtain a similar LATE across donors, which enhances comparability. We rely on the
exclusion restriction that changes in a donor’s aid budget over time do not differentially affect growth
in countries with a low probability to receive aid from that donor compared to growth in countries with
a high probability to receive aid, other than via the aid a country receives from that donor.

Using aid budgets rather than steel comes at a cost as the interaction with aid budgets is arguably less
exogenous than the interaction relying on China’s steel production. As Dreher and Langlotz (2017)
explain, the exclusion restriction of the interacted aid budget instrument could well be violated “given
that growth shocks in recipient countries could directly affect donors’ aid budgets […], while growth
shocks in non-recipient countries might not.” They point to a paper by Rodella-Boitreaud and Wagner
(2011) who find that donors increase their aid budgets in responding to increasing demands for their
aid rather than just responding with re-allocations of aid. Nevertheless, we believe that this approach is
reasonable for the purposes of achieving comparability across donors.

35

Specifically, we use the interaction of the respective donor’s aid budget, computed as the total sum of
all ODA (OOF) commitments in a given year, with the recipient-specific probability of receiving aid
from the respective donor as instrument for China, the OECD-DAC, and the United States. Broadly
following Lang (2016), we calculate the World Bank’s aid “budget” with measures of its aid resources:
the IBRD’s equity-to-loans ratio and the IDA’s “funding position.”

36

Lang suggests the IMF’s liquidity

35

We test robustness using variants of alternative instruments introduced in the recent literature. For the United States and the
OECD-DAC, exogenous variation over time results from different levels of donor government and legislative fractionalization
that are known to shift aid flows (Ahmed 2016; Dreher and Langlotz 2017). For the World Bank (IBRD and IDA), we make use of
Galiani et al.’s (2017) idea to exploit variation in aid resulting from a country crossing the IDA’s income threshold for receiving
highly concessional official financing. We again interact these variables with the probability to receive aid to create our
instruments (see Appendix D). While these instruments are arguably more exogenous than our aid budget interactions they
yield apples-to-oranges comparisons across donors.
36

Alternatively, one might think of aggregating country-specific commitments to derive the Bank’s total “aid budget.” For the
Bank, however, we expect the liquidity ratios to be more suitable to indicate budgetary leeway, given that, unlike the DAC
donors, the Bank has no fixed budget that it will spend independent of the demand for its resources.
17

ratio interacted with the probability of a country to be under an IMF program as instrument for IMF
loans. We follow this idea by using similar proxies for the World Bank. In order to measure the
availability of IBRD resources, we rely on the IBRD’s equity-to-loans ratio, which has been consistently
reported in the IBRD’s annual financial statements since 1994.

37

The equity-to-loans ratio is a measure

of the IBRD’s “ability to issue loans without calling its callable capital” (Bulow 2002: 245).

38

In order to

measure the availability of IDA resources, we rely on a measure of IDA’s “funding position,” which is
defined by the World Bank as “the extent to which IDA can commit to new financing of loans, grants
and guarantees given its financial position at any point in time and whether there are sufficient
resources to meet undisbursed commitments of loans and grants” (IDA 2015: 24). This indicator is
publicly disclosed by the World Bank every year in its annual financial statement. However, it only
began this practice in 2008, so we reconstruct the 1990-2007 time-series by using the World Bank’s
description on how it calculates this indicator. More specifically, with the information reported in the
IDA’s annual financial statements, we first sum the Bank’s net investment portfolio and its
non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing demand obligations (on account of members’ subscriptions and
contributions) and then divide this figure by the sum of the Bank’s undisbursed commitments of
development credits and grants.

39

We would ideally like to focus on the same periods of time when comparing across donors. However,
when we restrict the sample for the Western donors and lenders to the period for which we have aid
data for China (2000-2014), our instruments for Western aid are insufficiently powerful according to

37

“Equity” is defined as the sum of usable paid-in capital, general reserves, special reserves, and cumulative translation
adjustments. It does not include the “callable capital” that the IBRD’s shareholders are legally obligated to provide if and when it
is needed. “Loans” are defined as the sum of loans outstanding and the present value of guarantees.
38

One Executive Director to the World Bank memorably characterized the IBRD’s callable capital in this way: “Management and
the Board should think about callable capital as a Christian thinks about heaven, that it is a nice idea but no one wants to go
there because the price of admission is death” (quoted in Kapur et al. 1997: 991).
39

Since 2008, the Bank has summed it net investment portfolio and its “unrestricted” demand obligations. However, prior to
2008, the Bank did not separately report its “restricted” and “unrestricted” demand obligations. Therefore, we rely instead on
the total non-negotiable, noninterest-bearing demand obligation figures reported in the Bank’s pre-2008 financial reports. The
Bank’s “restricted” demand obligations from 2008-2014 were almost negligible (less than 1 percent of total demand
obligations), so this difference in the way IDA’s funding position is calculated from 1999-2007 and 2008-2014 is small and
unlikely to be consequential. Likewise, the Bank reported its “net investment portfolio” as a stand-alone figure from 2008 to 2014
but not in earlier years. Therefore, as an approximation of the Bank’s net investment portfolio in each year between 2000 and
2007 we sum “Investments—Notes B and F” and “currencies due from banks” less “net payable from investment securities
transactions.” As an approximation of the Bank’s “net investment portfolio” in each year between 1990 and 1999 we sum cash
and investments immediately available and not immediately available for disbursement.
18

the first-stage F statistics. Our comparison thus relies on comparable LATEs, but different samples in
terms of recipients and years.

4. Main Results
Table 1 presents our main results on the potential growth effects of Chinese aid for the 2002-2016
period.

40

We show results using OLS in columns 1-4. We start with the number of Chinese projects as

variable of interest in columns 1 and 2 and then turn to the logged financial amounts in columns 3 and
4. As can be seen from column 1, the number of Chinese OOF projects is significantly positively
correlated with economic growth in recipient countries at the five-percent level of significance. Five
additional Chinese OOF projects are associated with an increase in economic growth by more than a
percentage point two years after the aid has been committed. When we instead focus on a narrowly
defined measure of Chinese aid—i.e., Chinese development projects that meet the OECD-DAC criteria
for ODA—the positive correlation is only slightly weaker and remains statistically significant at the
five-percent level (column 2). The significantly positive correlation for OOF holds up when we look at
amounts rather than numbers (column 3) but becomes marginally insignificant for amounts of ODA
(column 4).

The results in columns 1-4 only reflect correlations and likely suffer from endogeneity. This is why we
proceed with applying our instrumental-variables strategy to account for reverse causality and other
sources of endogeneity. Columns 5-8 replicate the regressions of columns 1-4 with 2SLS where the
first-stage regression specification follows Equation 2. As can be seen from the Kleibergen-Paap F test
reported at the bottom of the table, our instruments are highly relevant. At the ten-percent level of
significance, Chinese ODA boosts economic growth in recipient countries (columns 6 and 8), while
there is no significant effect of Chinese OOF (columns 5 and 7). The effects are stronger than the
correlations obtained with OLS. The downward bias of the OLS results is in line with expectations, as
China appears to provide more aid to poorer countries (Dreher and Fuchs 2015; Dreher et al.
forthcoming,a). One additional Chinese aid project is associated with an increase in economic growth
by 0.7 percentage points two years after the aid commitment (column 6).

41

This effect is sizable in light

40

Recall that while we measure Chinese aid annually between 2000 and 2014, we rely on two-year lags.

41

In our dataset, the average financial size of Chinese ODA projects is $43 million.
19

of the fact that the average economic growth rate of the recipient countries in our sample is 2.8
percentage points. When we use financial amounts of ODA instead of project counts, our results
suggest that a doubling of the Chinese ODA in the average recipient country increases recipient
growth by 0.4 percentage points.

Columns 9-12 replicate the regressions controlling for the most common determinants of growth
employed in the aid effectiveness literature: the average number of assassinations in a recipient
country (from Banks and Wilson 2016), its government surplus as a share of GDP, its rate of inflation,
money as a share of GDP, and trade openness (all data from the World Bank’s World Development
Indicators, WDI).

42

We linearly interpolate the control variables to maximize sample size. The

excludability of our instrument does not depend on additional control variables but their inclusion
arguably introduces endogeneity, which is why we prefer to omit them in our baseline specifications in
columns 5-8. The number of observations is lower because of countries with data missing for all years.
Nevertheless, as can be seen from columns 9-12, the inclusion of the additional variables does not
qualitatively change our conclusions. The coefficients on our Chinese ODA measures remain positive
and statistically significant at conventional levels—and of similar magnitude—while there is no such
effect for OOF.

As an important test for robustness, we also explored specifications that control for the yearly amounts
of Chinese foreign direct investment flows (FDI) and its exports, both interacted with the probability of
receiving Chinese aid. This accounts for potential confounding factors in which Chinese FDI and
exports, rather than aid, was driving our differential growth effects in recipient countries that receive
more Chinese aid compared to those that receive less. The results in Appendix C2 confirm the effect of
Chinese ODA (and the non-result for OOF). While the coefficients for ODA projects and amounts
increase in magnitude, the power of our instrument is weaker, as one might expect. In three of the four
regressions, however, the instrument remains strong.

Table 2 reports results for three major Western donors: the OECD-DAC, the United States, and the
World Bank. Using the aid budget instrument, our broad findings for Chinese ODA are comparable to

42

We prefer to control for the individual dimensions of “good policy” rather than building a composite index. We do not include
institutional quality, which hardly varies year-to-year and would substantially reduce the number of countries in our sample.
20

those obtained with the steel instrument in Table 1. Again, significant growth effects are only visible for
Chinese ODA but not for Chinese OOF. The size of the estimated effect for ODA is roughly twice as
large compared to the previous estimate: one additional Chinese aid project is associated with an
increase in economic growth by 1.5 percentage points two years after the aid commitment (column 2).
A doubling of Chinese ODA amounts increases growth by almost one percentage point (0.94) (column
4). We find that ODA from the Western bilateral donors boosts economic growth in recipient countries
as well (columns 6 and 8).

43

According to the results, a doubling of ODA from OECD-DAC countries

(the United States) increases growth by 1.4 (2.3) percentage points. When we compare these effects to
those of Chinese aid, we cannot reject the hypothesis that the effect of Chinese ODA on growth equals
those of DAC donors or those of the United States. There is no comparable effect for DAC OOF and
U.S. OOF (columns 5 and 7). Nor do we observe any effect of IBRD loans and IDA grants (columns 9
and 10) on recipients’ economic growth.

44

Table 3 investigates the timing of the growth effects of aid across all donors. We estimate a variant of
Table 2 where we change the lag structure of aid. We change the lag structure of the respective
instrument in analogy—e.g., when we lag aid by four years, the corresponding instrument is lagged by
five years. For the reader’s convenience, the second row of Table 3 replicates the results of our
baseline specification where we use the second lag. Our results suggest that Chinese ODA yields
near-term economic growth impacts, as evidenced by the significant coefficients in the first three
years. By contrast, the economic growth impacts of DAC and U.S. ODA appear to accrue over longer
periods of time: the growth effects of DAC and U.S. ODA are still visible after six years. We also find
that DAC OOF and IBRD flows demonstrate negative growth effects after four years. These results do
not imply that OOF cannot affect growth in the longer-run. Instead, we interpret them as showing that
OOF is not complemented with additional domestic resources in the short-run, and might to some
extent substitute domestic funds in the first couple of years after OOF is committed. To the extent that
43

This is remarkably different from the longer-term results reported in Dreher and Langlotz (2017). Focusing on four-year
averages, Dreher and Langlotz find no significant effect of aid on growth. When we replicate the analysis using the same
instrument as Dreher and Langlotz, we also find no effect of DAC aid on growth. The same holds when we follow Ahmed’s
(2016) identification strategy for U.S. aid, and a variant of Galiani et al.’s (2017) identification strategy for the World Bank (other
than Galiani et al. we do not use this instrument for all DAC donors, but focus on the World Bank only). This stresses the
importance of different LATEs for differences in results among papers in the aid effectiveness literature. See Appendix D for
details.
44

These findings should be interpreted with some degree of caution, as the results for the OECD-DAC and the United States are
based on a longer panel (1978-2016) as the instrument failed to reach relevance on the shorter 2002-2016 sample. Similarly, the
results for the IBRD refer to the 1997-2016 and for the IDA to the 1993-2016 period.
21

these projects are productive, they could still affect growth in the medium- or longer term, which we
cannot test given the short sample of data at our disposal.

45

Finally, we investigate sectoral heterogeneity in the growth effects of aid. We do so in order to account
for the fact that aid from China, the United States and the World Bank support different types of
activities and the sectoral composition of aid may condition its impact on economic growth. Clemens
et al. (2012) decompose total aid flows into “early-impact” aid flows (e.g., infrastructure) that plausibly
impact near-term growth outcomes and aid flows that likely only generate growth and development
benefits over longer periods of time. They find relatively strong impacts of aid on growth when they
limit their analysis to “early-impact” aid flows. However, they do not test whether donors are
differentially effective at promoting economic growth when they support the same types of “growth”
sector activities (e.g., highways, bridges, railroads, dams, airports, seaports, electricity grids).
Policymakers in developing countries frequently claim that China is more efficient at implementing
social and economic infrastructure projects than its Western counterparts (Soulé-Kohndou 2016).

46

However, a popular counter-argument is that, in its zeal to help partner countries install the “hardware”
of economic development in an efficient manner, China has prioritized speed over quality. Critics
charge that China has financed white elephant projects—e.g. hospitals without the necessary
equipment and personnel, roads that wash away because of substandard construction work and
insufficient attention to long-term maintenance—that provide few economic benefits, while Western
donors and lenders have learned through decades of experience to design and implement
development projects in careful and sustainable ways.

In Table 4, we estimate the growth effects of aid channeled to three broad sectors as defined by the
OECD: Economic Infrastructure & Services, Social Infrastructure & Services, and Production Sectors.
The “Social Infrastructure & Services” category includes health, education, governance, and water
supply and sanitation projects; the “Economic Infrastructure & Services” category includes

45

Note that a substantial amount of OOF (and ODA) comes with imports from the West. If all aid would be imported, GDP
would not increase mechanically simply because the aid is spent.
46

In 2008, the then-President of Senegal, Abdoulaye Wade, published an op-ed in the Financial Times, celebrating China for its
responsiveness to the local authorities in Africa and admonishing Western donors for their skepticism and criticism of Beijing:
“With direct aid, credit lines and reasonable contracts, China has helped African nations build infrastructure projects in record
time. … I have found that a contract that would take five years to discuss, negotiate and sign with the World Bank takes three
months when we have dealt with Chinese authorities” (Wade 2008).
22

transportation projects (e.g., roads, railways, and airports), energy production and distribution
projects, and information and communication technology (ICT) projects (e.g., broadband internet and
mobile phone infrastructure); and the “Production Sector” category includes agriculture, fishing,
forestry, mining, industry, trade, and tourism projects. We limit our analysis to Chinese, U.S., and
OECD-DAC ODA since our previous results suggest that only ODA consistently registers positive
effects on economic growth. To instrument these different ODA flows, we rely on the sector-specific
probability of receiving aid to calculate our interacted instruments. That is, rather than focusing on the
probability of receiving any aid, we use the probability of receiving aid in these three sectors. Our
results suggest that, irrespective of the source of ODA (China, the World Bank, or the U.S.), support for
the “Economic Infrastructure & Services” sector and the “Social Infrastructure & Services” sector
consistently yields positive economic growth returns. DAC ODA for “Production Sector” activities—but
not those from China or the United States—increases economic growth as well.

47

Taken together, our results show positive causal effects of Chinese aid on recipients’ economic growth.
Only ODA–i.e., aid in the strict sense – registers this positive effect. This is true of Chinese, U.S., and
OECD-DAC ODA. However, one key difference is that the growth effects of Beijing’s development aid
materialize within three years of the initial financial commitment, and these effects seem to be
shorter-lived than those from Western ODA. Our sectoral regressions also suggest that ODA targeting
economic and social infrastructure and services increases economic growth, regardless of the source
48

of funding.

5. Does Chinese Aid Harm the Effectiveness of Western Aid?
Having benchmarked the effectiveness of Chinese aid vis-à-vis the World Bank, the United States, and
OECD-DAC donors as a whole, we now consider whether interactions between Chinese and
traditional donors impinge upon the effectiveness of aid. More specifically, we test whether and to

47

However, when we run the sectoral regressions for the OECD-DAC and United States for the period of time we also have data
for Chinese aid (2002-2016), the significantly positive results for these Western donors disappear. While these results should be
interpreted with caution given the lower first-stage F statistics we obtain, they could hint at the Western donors’ neglect of
infrastructure projects in recent decades (see Appendix C3 for details).
48

By contrast, growth effects are only observable in the production sectors for DAC aid.
23

what extent Western aid is less effective at spurring economic growth when given to countries that also
receive substantial support from China.

Scholars, journalists, and policymakers have previously argued that China’s disregard for good
governance principles diminishes the effectiveness of aid from more “enlightened” donors
(Crouigneau and Hiault 2006; Collier 2007; Naím 2007; Pehnelt 2007; Woods 2008; The Economist
2009).

49

By way of example, in 2007, the head of the UK’s Department for International Development

(DFID), Hilary Benn, asserted that “China’s failure to match the conditions placed on aid by countries
such as Britain—including evidence of good governance, respect for human rights and spending
directed to alleviate poverty—could set back progress toward democratic administrations” (McGreal
2007). Similarly, in 2009, the Executive Vice President of the Asia Society relayed to the BBC a specific
account from Southeast Asia where this dynamic seemed to be at work: “Cambodia was considering a
$600m loan from the World Bank that had conditions about transparency and anti-corruption
and accountability. The Cambodians basically told the World Bank to go to hell and the next day they
received a $601 [million] loan from the Chinese with no conditions” (BBC 2009).

Several recent studies suggest that anecdotes like this one may reflect a broader empirical pattern.
Hernandez (2017) provides evidence that recipients of Chinese aid receive World Bank loans with
fewer conditions. Likewise, Li (2017) finds that Chinese aid has blunted the democratizing effects of
DAC aid to Sub-Saharan Africa. Kersting and Kilby (2014) similarly recover evidence that Chinese aid
undermines democratic governance. Therefore, to the extent that World Bank conditions and
high-quality institutions support economic growth in recipient countries, Chinese aid could have
indirectly detrimental effects on economic growth rates.

50

We investigate the popular but empirically untested claim that access to Chinese aid reduces the
effectiveness of Western aid. Ideally, we would like to include Chinese and Western development
finance in the same regression, and add an interaction between them. However, our instruments lack
power for Western aid when we restrict the sample to the recent period where Chinese aid data is also
49

Swedlund (2017) provides a counter-argument.

50

On the other hand, Strange et al. (2017a) find that Chinese aid can help prevent civil conflict when recipients are faced with
sudden withdrawals of Western aid. Therefore, to the extent that political stability promotes economic growth, Chinese aid
could also have indirect positive effects.
24

available. This is an even more acute problem when we also instrument the interaction (with the
interaction of the individual instruments). Therefore, rather than using interactions, we compare the
growth effects of Western aid between countries that have received a major influx of Chinese aid with
average recipients of Chinese aid. In order to do so, Table 5 replicates Table 2 but restricts the sample
to “Chinese aid darlings.” We define “Chinese aid darlings” as countries that either received a total of
at least ten Chinese officially financed projects over the 2000-2014 period or at least two projects
51

during the 1960-2005 period (using historical Chinese aid data from Dreher and Fuchs 2015).

Only

for the IBRD and IDA the F statistics indicate sufficient power when we restrict the sample to the
2002-2016 period for which we also have Chinese aid data available. For them, we therefore also run
regressions where we define Chinese “aid darlings” as countries that receive at least one Chinese
project in a particular year.

Arguably, the decision of whether a country becomes a “Chinese aid darling” is not exogenous, as
China’s aid allocation follows need-based, commercial, and geopolitical motives (Dreher and Fuchs
2015; Dreher et al. forthcoming,a). Our results in Table 5 could thus suffer from sample selection bias.
We address this issue by using the predicted number of Chinese projects rather than the actual
number to select the sample of Chinese aid darlings (in Table 6). Specifically, we use the first-stage
regression results from column 5 of Table 1 to make this decision (and thus exclusively focus on the
more recent period). We define “aid darlings” as countries that are predicted to receive at least 10
projects from Beijing over the sample period. In addition, we again run regressions for the IBRD and
the IDA where “darlings” are those countries that we predict to receive at least one Chinese project in
a particular year. Running seemingly unrelated regressions, we compute Wald tests to test statistically
significant differences in the effect sizes compared to the coefficients in Table 2. The corresponding
p-values are reported at the bottom of Tables 5 and 6.

Comparing the results in Tables 5 and 6 with those in Table 2, we find no clear pattern. The coefficients
show statistically significant differences between Table 2 (all countries) and Tables 5 and 6 (only
Chinese aid darlings) in three sets of regressions and do not point in a clear direction. Specifically, the
effects of DAC OOF and IDA commitments are more positive when given to “Chinese aid darlings”
51

th

These cutoff values reflect the 56 percentile in both distributions. Of course, any cutoff is arbitrary. However, our findings do
not hinge on this decision. For example, the results are qualitatively similar if we use 20 projects in the current period
(2000-2014) as cutoff and disregard historical aid activities. Results are available on request.
25

(columns 1 and 6 of Table 6). In contrast, only one coefficient points to a lower effectiveness of
Western aid in China’s presence. As illustrated in column 5 of Table 5, IBRD commitments are less
effective in countries where Chinese aid is given in abundance.

52

However, when we account for the

endogeneity of Chinese aid (in Table 6), the difference in effectiveness of IBRD commitments is no
longer significant at conventional levels. Taken together, claims that Chinese aid systematically impairs
the effectiveness of Western aid are not supported by our findings.

6. Conclusions
China has become a major source of global development finance across the developing world, but the
nature and consequences of its aid activities are poorly understood. The absence of rigorous evidence
on the economic growth impacts of Chinese development finance represents a major blind spot in the
aid effectiveness literature. This paper seeks to address the gap by estimating the average economic
growth effects of Chinese aid and benchmarking China’s performance against three other prominent
sources of development finance: The World Bank, the United States, and OECD-DAC donors as a
whole.

Our results show that Chinese aid boosts economic growth in recipient countries. Relying on recent
identification strategies proposed in the aid effectiveness literature, we also benchmark the
effectiveness of Chinese aid vis-à-vis the World Bank, the United States, and all members of the
OECD’s Development Assistance Committee (DAC). Our results indicate that Chinese, U.S. and
OECD-DAC aid produce similar economic growth impacts. We also find no evidence to support the
idea that Western aid is less effective at accelerating economic growth in countries that also have
significant access to Chinese aid. On the whole, we consider this body of evidence to be encouraging
and think it should allay some of the longstanding fears that policymakers and policy analysts have
expressed about China acting as “rogue donor” that undermines the effectiveness of Western
assistance (e.g., Naím 2007). While there are a variety of potential second order effects of Chinese
aid, the best evidence available indicates that these flows do not inhibit the economic growth effects of
Western assistance.

52

This latter result should be interpreted with great caution given the low F statistics of instrument relevance.
26

Our paper also calls attention to the importance of analyzing donor heterogeneity and financial flow
type heterogeneity in studies of aid effectiveness. Whereas we find evidence that Chinese, U.S. and
OECD DAC assistance increases economic growth in recipient countries, we find no such evidence for
the World Bank.

53

Also, unlike most studies of aid effectiveness, we decompose growth impacts

according to the type of financial flows that host countries received. We find strong evidence that
ODA—aid in the strictest sense of the term that is oriented towards development objectives and is
offered on highly concessional terms—strongly and consistently registers positive effects on short-term
economic growth in recipient countries. However, we do not find any robust evidence that OOF—less
concessional and non-concessional sources of official financing and officially financed activities with
non-developmental objectives—improves economic growth outcomes. This pattern, which seems to
hold true irrespective of the source of funding, has different implications for China and Western
suppliers of official finance. Only about 23 percent of China’s overseas development program is
financed with aid in the strictest sense of the term (meeting the definition of ODA outlined by the
OECD). Therefore, if China were to reorient more of it overseas spending towards ODA, low- and
middle- income countries would potentially be in a position to reap larger economic growth dividends,
at least in the short-run. Western donors, by comparison, have less scope to achieve large economic
growth impacts—within existing budgetary constraints—because they already provide most of their
support through highly concessional and developmentally-oriented projects (ODA).

In future research, we plan to evaluate potential mechanisms that might account for these empirical
patterns. First, we plan to decompose our donor country-level estimates of aid effectiveness by
agency. The effectiveness of U.S. aid might differ according to which agency provides financial
support. The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) is legislatively authorized to provide assistance
only to low-income and lower-middle income countries that demonstrate a commitment to ruling
54

justly, investing in their people, and promoting economic freedom.

By contrast, USAID is subject to a

wide array of geostrategic, diplomatic and commercial pressures that influence its aid allocation

53

These results are consistent with evidence on the growth impacts of Chinese, IDA, and IBRD projects at the subnational level
(Dreher and Lohmann 2015; Dreher et al. 2016).
54

The U.S. Government has made access to MCC assistance conditional upon a country's performance on third-party measures
of good governance. This “aid selectivity” model has been shown to be effective, to some extent, in spurring reforms in countries
that are potentially eligible for such assistance (Öhler et al. 2012; Parks and Rice 2013; Parks and Davis 2017). Also, given that
the quality of governance is an important determinant of economic growth (e.g., Aidt 2009) and the MCC systematically favors
well-governed countries, one might expect MCC funds to be more conducive to growth.
27

behavior (Lebovic 1988; Lai 2003; Lai and Morey 2006); so, to the extent that aid-giving motivations
impinge upon aid effectiveness, assistance from USAID might be less effective than MCC assistance at
accelerating recipient-country growth (Headey 2008; Bearce and Tirone 2010; Minoiu and Reddy
2010; Dreher et al. forthcoming,b).

55

Ideally, we would also disaggregate Chinese development

finance by agency (e.g., the Ministry of Commerce, Export-Import Bank of China, China Development
Bank); however, our data are not sufficiently fine-grained to allow such comparisons at this time. We
therefore plan to compare the effectiveness of Chinese ODA and U.S. ODA from MCC and USAID.

Second, the degree to which aid is targeted to address the heterogeneous needs of recipient
countries might differ. We therefore plan to follow the analysis in Asmus et al. (2017), who introduce
indicators that measure the alignment between sector-specific needs of recipient countries and the
sectoral composition of aid from donor countries as a conditioning factor for the effectiveness of aid.
Asmus et al. (2017) show that well-targeted aid—in in the sense that the composition of aid matches the
specific needs of recipients at different points in time—enhances the growth effects of aid (or reduces
any growth-impairing effects). We plan to follow their approach and calculate targeting indices for the
different donor (agencies) in our sample.

A third possibility is that our aid effectiveness estimates vary across different types of recipient
countries. The growth effects of Chinese aid could vary across countries with and without debt
sustainability problems (Onjala forthcoming).

56

Chinese aid effectiveness could also vary across

well-governed and poorly-governed countries (Burnside and Dollar 2000; Angeles and Neanidis 2009;
Baliamoune-Lutz and Mavrotas 2009; Denizer et al. 2013).

57

A related hypothesis suggests that aid

from China and Western sources might be differentially effective across countries with high and low

55

The sectoral composition of aid also varies significantly across U.S. agencies. Whereas the MCC invests heavily in
infrastructure and productive sectors, USAID tends to be more engaged in the social, environmental, and governance sectors.
These differences might also lead to heterogeneous growth responses in U.S. recipient countries.
56

However, even if we were able to identify differential effects across countries with and without debt sustainability problems, it
is unlikely that we will be able to detect long-run growth effects through the debt accumulation channel in the absence of a
longer time-series that provides measurements of Chinese aid prior to 2000. As such, we will likely not be able to rule out the
possibility that Chinese development finance undermines debt sustainability in recipient (borrower) countries over longer
periods of time and eventually slow economic growth (Onjala forthcoming).
57

Others have argued that China is better positioned than Western countries to transact with poorly governed countries
because its employs financial modalities, such as commodity-backed loans, that reduce the risks of financial misappropriation,
loan repayment delinquency, and default (e.g., Bräutigam 2011).

28

levels of public investment efficiency (Dabla-Norris et al. 2012). If the economic growth effects of
Chinese aid that we document in this study vanish or diminish in countries with low levels of public
investment efficiency, such evidence would help explain why so many pundits and policymakers claim
that China has a track record of funding “white elephant” projects.

Finally, given that we measure Chinese development finance over a relatively short span of time
(2000-2014), we cannot systematically rule out the possibility that Chinese development finance has
longer-run effects on economic growth that we are not able to detect. A relatively long time-series of
Chinese aid measurements prior to 2000 would help solve this problem.

29

References
Ahlquist, John S. 2006. Economic Policy, Institutions, and Capital Flows: Portfolio and Direct
Investment Flows in Developing Dountries. International Studies Quarterly 50 (3): 681–704.
Ahmed, Faisal Z. 2016. Does Foreign Aid Harm Political Rights? Evidence from U.S. Aid. Quarterly
Journal of Political Science 11 (2): 183–217.
Aidt, Toke S. 2009. Corruption, Institutions, and Economic Development. Oxford Review of Economic
Policy 25 (2): 271–291.
Alden, Christopher, Daniel Large, and Ricardo Soares de Oliveira (eds.). 2008. China Returns to Africa:
a Rising Power and a Continent Embrace. New York, NY: Columbia University Press.
Angeles, Luis, and Kyriakos C. Neanidis. 2009. Aid Effectiveness: The Role of the Local Elite. Journal of
Development Economics 90 (1): 120–134.
Annen, Kurt, and Stephen Kosempel. 2017. Why Aid-to-GDP Ratios. Working paper.
Asmus, Gerda, Axel Dreher, and Peter Nunnenkamp. 2017. Is Targeted Aid More Effective?
Sector-Specific Needs, the Composition of Aid and its Effects on Growth. Working Paper.
Baliamoune-Lutz, Mina, and George Mavrotas. 2009. Aid Effectiveness: Looking at the Aid–Social
Capital–Growth Nexus. Review of Development Economics 13 (3): 510–525.
Banks, Arthur S., and Kenneth A. Wilson. 2016. Cross-National Time-Series Data Archive. Databanks
International, Jerusalem, Israel. Available at: http://www.cntsdata.com.
Bartke, Wolfgang. 1989. The Economic Aid of the PR China to Developing and Socialist Countries, 2nd
ed. Munich, Germany: K. G. Saur.
BBC. 2009. China's Global Reach: Lending more than the World Bank. BBC World Service, 2009.
Available at: http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/mobile/business-16092634.
Bearce, David H., and Daniel C. Tirone. 2010. Foreign Aid Effectiveness and the Strategic Goals of
Donor Governments. The Journal of Politics 72 (3): 837–851.
BenYishay, Ariel, Bradley Parks, Daniel Runfola, and Rachel Trichler. 2016. Forest Cover Impacts of
Chinese Development Projects in Ecologically Sensitive Areas. AidData Working Paper #32.
AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Blair, Rob, and Philip Roessler. 2016. China and the African State: Evidence from Surveys, Survey
Experiments and Behavioral Games in Liberia. USAID Research and Innovation Grants Working
Papers Series. USAID, Washington, DC.
Brant, Philippa. 2015. The Geopolitics of Chinese Aid: Mapping Beijing’s Funding in the Pacific.
Foreign
Affairs,
March
4.
Available
at:
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/china/2015-03-04/geopolitics-chinese-aid.
Bräutigam, Deborah. 2009. The Dragon’s Gift: the Real Story of China in Africa. Oxford, UK: Oxford
University Press.
Bräutigam, Deborah. 2011. Testimony on China’s Growing Role in Africa before the United States
Senate Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African Affairs. Available at:
https://www.foreign.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/Deborah_Brautigam_Testimony.pdf.
Brazys, Samuel, Johan A. Elkink, and Gina Kelly. 2017. Bad Neighbors? How Co-Located Chinese and
World Bank Development Projects Impact Local Corruption in Tanzania. The Review of
International Organizations 12 (2): 227–253.
Brech, Viktor, and Niklas Potrafke. 2014. Donor Ideology and Types of Foreign Aid. Journal of
Comparative Economics 42 (1): 61–75.
Bulow, Jeremy. 2002. First World Governments and Third World Debt. Brookings Papers on Economic
Activity, no. 1: 229–55.
30

Bun, Maurice, and Teresa D. Harrison. 2014. OLS and IV Estimation of Regression Models Including
Endogenous Interaction Terms. University of Amsterdam discussion paper No. 2014-02.
Bunte, Jonas B., Harsh Desai, Kanio Gbala, Bradley Parks, and Daniel Runfola. 2017. Natural Resource
Sector FDI and Growth in Post-Conflict Settings: Subnational Evidence from Liberia. AidData
Working Paper #34. AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Burnside, Craig, and David Dollar. 2000. Aid, Policies, and Growth. American Economic Review 90 (4):
847–868.
Busse, Matthias, Ceren Erdogan, and Henning Mühlen. 2016. China's Impact on Africa—The Role of
Trade, FDI and Aid. Kyklos 69 (2): 228–262.
Calderón, César, and Luis Servén. 2010a. Infrastructure and Economic Development in Sub-Saharan
Africa. Journal of African Economies 19 (1): 13–87.
Calderón, César, and Luis Servén. 2010b. Infrastructure in Latin America. In José A. Ocampo and
Jaime Ros (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Latin American Economies. New York, NY: Oxford
University Press: 659–690.
Campbell, Ivan, Thomas Wheeler, Larry Attree, Dell M. Butler, and Bernardo Mariani. 2012. China and
Conflict-Affected States: Between Principle and Pragmatism. Saferworld, London, UK.
Carmody, Padraig. 2016. The New Scramble for Africa. New York, NY: Polity Press.
Christian, Paul, and Christopher Barrett. 2017. Revisiting the Effect of Food Aid on Conflict: A
Methodological Caution. Policy Research Working Paper No. 8171. World Bank, Washington, DC.
Available at: http://hdl.handle.net/10986/27978.
Christensen, Benedicte Vibe. 2010. China in Africa A Macroeconomic Perspective. CGD Working
Paper 230. Washington, DC: Center for Global Development.
Claessens, Stijn, Enrica Detragiache, Ravi Kanbur, and Peter Wickbam. 1996. Analytical Aspects of the
Debt Problems of Heavily Indebted Countries. Policy Research Working Paper No. 1618. World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Clemens, Michael A., Steven Radelet, Rikhil R. Bhavnani, and Samuel Bazzi. 2012. Counting Chickens
when they Hatch: Timing and the Effects of Aid on Growth. The Economic Journal 122 (561): 590–
617.
Collier, Paul. 2007. The Bottom Billion. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.
Cordella, Tito, and Hulya Ulku. 2007. Grants vs. Loans. IMF Staff Papers 54 (1): 139–162.
Crouigneau, Francoise, and Richard Hiault. 2006. Wolfowitz Slams China Banks on Africa Lending.
Financial Times, October 24.
Custer, Samantha, Zachary Rice, Takaaki Masaki, Rebecca Latourell, and Bradley Parks. 2015. Listening
to Leaders: Which Development Partners Do They Prefer and Why. AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Dabla-Norris, Era, Jim Brumby, Annette Kyobe, Zac Mills, and Chris Papageorgiou. 2012. Investing in
Public Investment: An Index of Public Investment Efficiency. Journal of Economic Growth 17 (3):
235–266.
Deininger, Klaus, and John Okidi. 2003. Growth and Poverty Reduction in Uganda, 1999–2000: Panel
Data Evidence. Development Policy Review 21 (4): 481–509.
Denizer, Cevdet, Daniel Kaufmann, and Aart Kraay. 2013. Good Countries or Good Projects? Macro
and Micro Correlates of World Bank Project Outcomes. Journal of Development Economics 105:
288–302.
Dollar, David. 2008. Supply Meets Demand: Chinese Infrastructure Financing in Africa. World Bank
Blog.
Available
at:
http://blogs.worldbank.org/eastasiapacific/supply-meets-demand-chinese-infrastructure-financing
-in-africa.

31

Doucouliagos, Hristos, and Martin Paldam. 2009. The Aid Effectiveness Literature: The Sad Results of
40 Years of Research. Journal of Economic Surveys 23 (3): 433–461.
Doucouliagos, Hristos. Forthcoming. The Politics of International Aid. In Roger Congleton, Bernard
Grofman, and Stefan Voigt (eds.), Oxford Handbook of Public Choice.
Dovern, Jonas, and Peter Nunnenkamp. 2007. Aid and Growth Accelerations: An Alternative Approach
to Assessing the Effectiveness of Aid. Kyklos 60 (3): 359–383.
Dreher, Axel, and Andreas Fuchs. 2015. Rogue Aid? An Empirical Analysis of China's Aid Allocation.
Canadian Journal of Economics 48 (3): 988–1023.
Dreher, Axel, and Sarah Langlotz. 2017. Aid and Growth: New Evidence Using an Excludable
Instrument. Heidelberg University Discussion Paper No. 635.
Dreher, Axel, and Steffen Lohmann. 2015. Aid and Growth at the Regional Level. Oxford Review of
Economic Policy 31 (3-4): 420–446.
Dreher, Axel, Andreas Fuchs, Bradley Parks, Austin M. Strange, and Michael J. Tierney. Forthcoming,a.
Apples and Dragon Fruits: The Determinants of Aid and other Forms of State Financing from China
to Africa. International Studies Quarterly.
Dreher, Axel, Andreas Fuchs, Roland Hodler, Bradley Parks, Paul A. Raschky, and Michael J. Tierney.
2016. Aid on Demand: African Leaders and the Geography of China's Foreign Assistance. AidData
Working Paper 3 Revised. AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Dreher, Axel, Peter Nunnenkamp and Rainer Thiele. 2011. Are ‘New’ Donors Different? Comparing the
Allocation of Bilateral Aid between Non-DAC and DAC Donor Countries. World Development 39
(11): 1950-1968.
Dreher, Axel, Valentin Lang, and Sebastian Ziaja. 2017. Foreign Aid in Areas of Limited Statehood.
CESifo Working Paper 6340.
Dreher, Axel, Vera Z. Eichenauer, and Kai Gehring. Forthcoming,b. Geopolitics, Aid and Growth: The
Impact of U.N. Security Council Membership on the Effectiveness of Aid. World Bank Economic
Review.
Fischer, Stanley. 1993. The Role of Macroeconomic Factors in Growth. Journal of Monetary Economics
32 (3): 485–512.
Fuchs, Andreas, and Angelika Müller. 2017. Aid Donors. Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the
European Public Choice Society, Budapest, Hungary, April 19–22.
Galiani, Sebastian, Stephen Knack, Lixin C. Xu, and Ben Zou. 2017. The Effect of Aid on Growth:
Evidence from a quasi-Experiment. Journal of Economic Growth 22 (1): 1–33.
Ghose, Siddhartha. 2017. Tracking Funding for the Ebola Epidemic in Sierra Leone. AidData and the
U.S. Global Development Lab.
Greenhill, Romilly. 2013. The Age of Choice: Cambodia in the New Aid Landscape. London, UK:
Overseas Development Institute.
Headey, Derek. 2008. Geopolitics and the Effect of Foreign Aid on Economic Growth: 1970–2001.
Journal of International Development 20 (2): 161–180.
Hendrix, Cullen, and Marcus Noland. 2014. Confronting the Curse: The Economics and Geopolitics of
Natural Resource Governance. Washington, DC: Peterson Institute for International Economics.
Hernandez, Diego. 2017. Are “New” Donors Challenging World Bank Conditionality. World
Development 96 (C): 529–549.
Hicks, Robert, Bradley Parks, Timmons Roberts, and Michael Tierney. 2008. Greening Aid?
Understanding the Environmental Impact of Development Assistance. Oxford, UK: Oxford
University Press.

32

Hsiang, Solomon, and Nitin Sekar. 2016. Does Legalization Reduce Black Market Activity? Evidence
from a Global Ivory Experiment and Elephant Poaching Data. NBER Working Paper 22314.
National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA.
Ioannidis, John P. A., Tom D. Stanley, and Hristos Doucouliagos. Forthcoming. The Power of Bias in
Economics Research. The Economic Journal.
International Development Association (IDA). 2015. Management’s Discussion & Analysis and Financial
Statements.
June
30,
2015.
Washington
DC:
World
Bank.
Accessed
at https://ida.worldbank.org/sites/default/files/images/ida_financial_statements_jun_15.pdf
Isaksson, Ann-Sofie, and Andreas Kotsadam. 2016. Chinese Aid and Local Corruption. AidData
Working Paper #33. AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Iyoha, Milton A. 1999. External Debt and Economic Growth in Sub-Saharan African Countries: An
Econometric Study. African Economic Research Consortium Research Paper.
Kapur, Devesh, John P. Lewis, and Richard C. Webb. 1997. The World Bank: Its First Half-Century, Vol.
1. Washington, DC: Brookings Institution Press.
Kersting, Erasmus, and Christopher Kilby. 2014. Aid and Democracy Redux. European Economic
Review 67: 125–143.
Khandker, Shahidur R., Douglas F. Barnes, and Hussain A. Samad. 2013. Welfare Impacts of Rural
Electrification: A Panel Data Analysis from Vietnam. Economic Development and Cultural Change
61 (3): 659–692.
Khandker, Shahidur R., Hussain A. Samad, Rubaba Ali, and Douglas F. Barnes. 2014. Who Benefits
Most from Rural Electrification? Evidence in India. Policy Research Working Paper 6095. World
Bank, Washington, DC.
Khomba, Daniel C., and Alex Trew. 2017. Aid and Growth in Malawi. AidData Working Paper #42.
AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Kilama, Eric G. 2016. Evidences on Donors Competition in Africa: Traditional Donors versus China.
Journal of International Development 28 (4): 528–551.
Kilby, Christopher. 2017. What We Don’t Know: Incorporating Data Uncertainty into Aid Allocation
Models. Working Paper.
Kitano, Naohiro. 2016. Estimating China’s Foreign Aid II: 2014 Update. JICA-RI Working Paper #131.
Kumar, Manmohan, and Jaejoon Woo. 2010. Public Debt and Growth. IMF Working Paper WP/10/174.
IMF, Washington, DC.
Lai, Brian, and Daniel S. Morey. 2006. Impact of Regime Type on the Influence of U.S. Foreign Aid.
Foreign Policy Analysis 2 (4): 385–404.
Lai, Brian. 2003. Examining the Goals of U.S. Foreign Assistance in the Post-Cold War Period,
1991-1996. Journal of Peace Research 40 (1): 103–128.
Lancaster, Carol. 2007. The Chinese Aid System. Center for Global Development Essay. June 2007.
Center for Global Development, Washington, DC.
Lang, Valentin. 2016. The Economics of the Democratic Deficit: The Effect of IMF Programs on
Inequality. Heidelberg University Discussion Paper 617.
Lebovic, James H. 1988. National Interests and U.S. Foreign Aid: The Carter and Reagan Years. Journal
of Peace Research 25 (2): 115–135.
Li, Xiaojun. 2017. Does Conditionality Still Work? China’s Development Assistance and Democracy in
Africa. Chinese Political Science Review 2 (2): 201-220.
McGreal, Chris. 2007. Chinese Aid to Africa May Do More Harm than Good, Warns Benn. The
Guardian, February 9.
Minasyan, Anna, Peter Nunnenkamp, and Katharina Richert. Forthcoming. Does Aid Effectiveness
Depend on the Quality of Donors. World Development 100: 16–30.
33

Minoiu, Camelia, and Sanjay G. Reddy. 2010. Development Aid and Economic Growth: A Positive
Long-Run Relation. The Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance 50 (1): 27–39.
Minor, Allison, Pranay Sinha, Brooke Russel, and Charles Perla. 2014. Defining & Measuring
Development Assistance from GCC Countries: A Methodological Note. AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Morgan, Pippa, and Yu Zheng. 2017. Tracing the Legacy: China’s Historical Aid and Contemporary
Investment in Africa. Working Paper.
Muchapondwa, Edwin, Daniel Nielson, Bradley Parks, Austin M. Strange, and Michael J. Tierney. 2016.
‘Ground-Truthing’ Chinese Development Finance in Africa: Field Evidence from South Africa and
Uganda. Journal of Development Studies 52 (6): 780–796.
Naím, Moisés. 2007. Rogue Aid. Foreign Policy 159 (Mar/Apr 2007): 95-96.
Nizalova, Olena Y., and Irina Murtazashvili. 2016. Exogenous Treatment and Endogenous Factors:
Vanishing of Omitted Variable Bias on the Interaction Term. Journal of Econometric Methods 5 (1):
71–77.
Nunn, Nathan, and Nancy Qian. 2014. U.S. Food Aid and Civil Conflict. American Economic Review
104 (6): 1630–1666.
Odedokun, Matthew. 2004. Multilateral and Bilateral Loans versus Grants: Issues and Evidence. The
World Economy 27 (2): 239–263.
Öhler, Hannes, Peter Nunnenkamp, and Axel Dreher. 2012. Does Conditionality Work? A Test for an
Innovative U.S. Aid Scheme. European Economic Review 56 (1): 138–153.
Onjala, Joseph. Forthcoming. China's Development Loans and the Threat of Debt Crisis in Kenya.
Development Policy Review.
Ouattara, Bazoumana, and Eric Strobl. 2008. Aid, Policy and Growth: Does Aid Modality Matter?
Review of World Economics 144 (2): 347-365.
Parks, Bradley, and Caroline Davis. 2017. When Do Governments Trade Domestic Reforms for External
Rewards? Explaining Policy Responses to the Millennium Challenge Corporation’s Eligibility
Standards. Working Paper.
Parks, Bradley, and Zachary J. Rice. 2013. Does the 'MCC Effect' Exist? Results from the 2012 MCA
Stakeholder Survey. MCA Monitor Report. Center for Global Development, Washington, DC.
Pattillo, Catherine, Helene Poirson, and Luca A. Ricci. 2003. Through What Channels Does External
Debt Affect Growth. Brookings Trade Forum. Brookings Institution Press, Washington, DC.
Pehnelt, Gernot. 2007. The Political Economy of China’s Aid Policy in Africa. Jena Economic Research
Papers # 051. University of Jena, Jena, Germany.
Perlez, Jane, and Yufan Huang. 2017. Behind China’s $1 Trillion Plan to Shake Up the Economic Order.
New
York
Times,
May
13.
Available
at:
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/13/business/china-railway-one-belt-one-road-1-trillion-plan.ht
ml.
Poplak, Richard. 2016. The new scramble for Africa: how China became the partner of choice. The
Guardian
22
December
2016.
Accessed
at
https://www.theguardian.com/global-development-professionals-network/2016/dec/22/the-new-s
cramble-for-africa-how-china-became-the-partner-of-choice.
Rajan, Raghuram G., and Arvind Subramanian. 2008. Aid and Growth: What does the Cross-Country
Evidence really Show. The Review of Economics and Statistics 90 (4): 643–665.
Rodella-Boitreaud, Aude-Sophie, and Natascha Wagner. 2011. 'Natural' Disaster, Conflict and Aid
Allocation. Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies Working Paper No.
09/2011. Geneva, Switzerland: Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies.

34

Soulé-Kohndou, Folashadé. 2016. Passive Agents? Bureaucratic Agency in Africa-China Negotiations:
A Case Study of Benin. LSE Global South Unit Working Paper No. 3/2016. London School of
Economics and Political Science, London, UK.
State Council. 2011. White Paper on China’s Foreign Aid. Xinhua/Information Office of the State
Council,
People’s
Republic
of
China,
Beijing,
China.
Available
at:
http://gov.cn/english/official/.2011-04/21/content 1849913.htm (accessed August 2011)
State Council. 2014. China’s Foreign Aid. Whitepaper. Xinhua/Information Office of the State Council,
People’s
Republic
of
China,
Beijing,
China.
Available
at:
https://web.archive.org/web/20170309163007/http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/china/2014-07
/10/c_133474011.htm (accessed August 2014).
Strange, Austin M., Axel Dreher, Andreas Fuchs, Bradley Parks, and Michael J. Tierney. 2017a. Tracking
Underreported Financial Flows: China’s Development Finance and the Aid–Conflict Nexus
Revisited. Journal of Conflict Resolution 61 (5): 935–963.
Strange, Austin M., Bradley Parks, Michael J. Tierney, Andreas Fuchs, Axel Dreher, and Vijaya
Ramachandran. 2013. China's Development Finance to Africa: A Media-Based Approach to Data
Collection. CGD Working Paper 323. Center for Global Development, Washington, DC.
Strange, Austin M., Siddhartha Ghose, Brooke Russel, Mengfan Cheng, and Bradley Parks. 2017b.
AidData’s Methodology for Tracking Underreported Financial Flows. Version 1.3. AidData,
Williamsburg, VA.
Swedlund, Haley J. 2017. Is China eroding the bargaining power of traditional donors in
Africa? International Affairs 93(2):389–408.
Temple, Jonathan, and Nicolas van de Sijpe. 2017. Foreign Aid and Domestic Absorption. Journal of
International Economics 108: 431–443.
Tierney, Michael J., Daniel L. Nielson, Darren G. Hawkins, J. Timmons Roberts, Michael G. Findley,
Ryan M. Powers, Bradley Parks, Sven E. Wilson, and Robert L. Hicks. 2011. More Dollars than Sense:
Refining Our Kknowledge of Development Finance Using AidData. World Development 39 (11):
1891-1906.
The Economist. 2009. An (Iron) Fistful of Help: Development Aid from Authoritarian Regimes. The
Economist, June 6.
Volkerink, Bjørn, and Jakob de Haan. 2001. Fragmented Government Effects on Fiscal Policy: New
Evidence. Public Choice 109 (3): 221–242.
Wade, Abdoulaye. 2008. Time for the West to Practice What It Preaches. Financial Times, 23 January
2008.
Walz, Julie, and Vijaya Ramachandran. 2011. Brave New World: A Literature Review of Emerging
Donors and the Changing Nature of Foreign Assistance. CGD Working Paper 273. Center for
Global Development, Washington, DC.
Werker, Eric, Faisal Z. Ahmed, and Charles Cohen. 2009. How is Foreign Aid Spent? Evidence from a
Natural Experiment. American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics 1 (2): 225–244.
Werker, Eric. 2012. The Political Economy of Bilateral Foreign Aid. In Gerard Caprio (ed.), Handbook of
Safeguarding Global Financial Stability: Political, Social, Cultural, and Economic Theories and
Models. U.K. Academic Press: 47–58.
Woods, Ngaire. 2008. Whose Aid? Whose Influence? China, Emerging Donors and the Silent
Revolution in Development Assistance. International Affairs 84 (6): 1205–1221.

35

Tables and Figures
Table 1: Growth effects of Chinese aid (baseline)

Number of OOF/vague projects (t-2)

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

OLS

OLS

OLS

OLS

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

(10)

(11)

(12)

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

0.198**

0.129

0.753

(2.57)

(0.19)

(1.04)

Chinese ODA projects (t-2)

0.132**

0.694*

0.821**

(2.12)

(1.93)

(2.07)

(log) Chinese OOF/vague amounts (t-2)

0.047*

0.023

0.132

(1.85)

(0.19)

(1.04)

(log) Chinese ODA amounts (t-2)

0.041

0.578*

(1.61)
(log) Population (t-1)

(9)

0.634*

(1.75)

6.531**

5.949**

6.207**

6.454**

6.529**

3.486

6.369**

5.511*

(2.27)

(2.10)

(2.10)

(2.26)

(2.28)

(1.08)

(2.13)

(1.78)

(1.81)
8.582***

4.674

7.404**

7.540**

(2.65)

(1.43)

(2.25)

(2.24)

-0.150

-0.158

-0.147

-0.031

(1.19)

(1.05)

(1.29)

(0.18)

0.033***

0.027***

0.035***

0.034***

(6.08)

(5.04)

(6.71)

(3.59)

-0.079

-0.087*

-0.071

-0.115

(1.48)

(1.69)

(1.45)

(1.63)

Money/GDP (t-1)

0.000

0.000

0.000

-0.000

(1.51)

(0.31)

(1.47)

(0.97)

Trade Openness (t-1)

0.037***

0.034***

0.037***

0.027**

Assassinations (t-1)
Government surplus (% of GDP, t-1)
Inflation (t-1)

(3.51)

(3.17)

(3.50)

(2.47)

First year

2002

2002

2002

2002

2002

2002

2002

2002

2002

2002

2002

2002

Last year

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

Number of observations

2078

2078

2078

2078

2076

2076

2076

2076

1546

1546

1546

1546

Number of countries

153

153

153

153

151

151

151

151

112

112

112

112

Cragg-Donald F

70.60

88.15

164.46

18.51

51.34

58.02

126.42

15.96

Kleibergen-Paap F

31.47

62.58

35.91

19.80

54.24

48.22

45.58

18.19

0.09

0.05

0.09

-0.16

0.14

0.07

0.16

-0.23

R squared (within)

0.09

0.09

0.09

0.09

Notes: t-values in parentheses. *** (**, *) indicate statistical significance at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

36

Table 2: Growth effects of Chinese and Western aid (budgets instruments)

Number of OOF/vague projects (t-2)

(1)
2SLS
0.386
(0.48)

Chinese ODA projects (t-2)

(2)
2SLS

(3)
2SLS

(4)
2SLS

(5)
2SLS

(6)
2SLS

(7)
2SLS

(8)
2SLS

(9)
2SLS

1.452***
(2.99)

(log) Chinese OOF/vague amounts (t-2)

0.069
(0.47)

(log) Chinese ODA amounts (t-2)

1.359**
(2.36)

(log) DAC OOF disbursements (t-2)

1.528
(1.24)

(log) DAC ODA commitments (t-2)

2.050**
(2.31)

(log) U.S. OOF disbursements (t-2)

-1.458
(0.14)

(log) U.S. ODA commitments (t-2)

3.276**
(2.12)

(log) IBRD commitments (t-2)

-0.307
(0.95)

(log) IDA commitments (t-2)
(log) Population (t-1)
First year
Last year
Number of observations
Number of countries
Cragg-Donald F
Kleibergen-Paap F
R squared (within)
Prob > chi2

(10)
2SLS

5.200
(1.63)
2003
2016
1927
150
49.62
17.80
0.09

-1.154
(0.31)
2003
2016
1927
150
54.08
36.12
-0.15

4.585
(1.40)
2003
2016
1927
150
120.26
32.36
0.09

2.718
(0.61)
2003
2016
1927
150
9.55
12.73
-1.41

2.304
(0.99)
1978
2016
4990
157
34.15
14.96
-0.01
0.49

1.816
(1.20)
1978
2016
4995
157
183.31
9.18
0.04
0.44

-0.020
(0.01)
1978
2016
4996
157
0.62
2.49
0.03
0.84

-0.644
(0.32)
1978
2016
4996
157
31.18
7.86
-0.13
0.10

-1.312
(0.33)
1997
2016
2828
155
21.91
8.07
0.03
0.06

-0.260
(0.26)
0.134
(0.04)
1993
2016
3395
158
37.51
14.13
0.05
0.14

Notes: t-values in parentheses. *** (**, *) indicate statistical significance at the 1% (5%, 10%) level. Prob > chi2 corresponds to testing the hypothesis that the effect of Chinese ODA/OOF on growth
equals those of DAC donors or those of the United States, respectively.

37

Table 3: Growth effects of Chinese and Western aid (budget instruments, various lags)

t-1
t-2
t-3
t-4
t-5
t-6

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

Chinese
OOF
projects

Chinese
ODA
projects

(log)
Chinese
OOF
amounts

(log)
Chinese
ODA
amounts

(log)
DAC
OOF
disb.

(log)
DAC
ODA
com.

(log)
U.S.
OOF
disb.

(log)
U.S.
ODA
com.

(log)
IBRD
com.

(log)
IDA
com.

0.683

1.195**

0.122

1.148**

1.273

2.084**

-7.405

3.432**

0.056

0.326

(0.92)

(2.41)

(0.93)

(2.01)

(1.05)

(2.32)

(0.75)

(2.06)

(0.19)

(0.29)

0.386

1.452***

0.069

1.359**

1.528

2.050**

-1.458

3.276**

-0.307

-0.260

(0.48)

(2.99)

(0.47)

(2.36)

(1.24)

(2.31)

(0.14)

(2.12)

(0.95)

(0.26)

-0.249

0.769*

-0.046

0.725

-0.592

1.951**

-32.120

3.472**

-0.514

0.150

(0.31)

(1.66)

(0.31)

(1.48)

(0.57)

(2.20)

(1.54)

(2.49)

(1.52)

(0.14)

-0.268

0.645

-0.050

0.551

-2.357**

1.910**

-46.410

4.392***

-0.627*

0.521

(0.37)

(1.50)

(0.38)

(1.39)

(2.14)

(2.10)

(1.41)

(3.10)

(1.78)

(0.46)

-0.538

0.240

-0.092

0.209

-2.239**

1.815**

-39.778

4.470***

-0.577*

-0.207

(0.79)

(0.70)

(0.81)

(0.68)

(2.12)

(2.06)

(1.38)

(3.51)

(1.72)

(0.16)

-0.542

-0.055

-0.100

-0.055

-2.021**

1.740**

-17.007

3.434***

-0.464

-0.033

(1.05)

(0.17)

(1.06)

(0.17)

(2.05)

(2.13)

(0.93)

(3.07)

(1.29)

(0.02)

Notes: Each cell represents a separate regression. All regressions include (log) Population (t-1) and country- and year-fixed effects as in Table 2. The table displays t-values in parentheses. *** (**, *)
indicate statistical significance at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

38

Table 4: Growth effects of Chinese and Western aid (budget instruments, broad aid sectors)

Economic Infrastructure & Services
Social Infrastructure & Services
Production Sectors
(log) Population (t-1)
First year
Last year
Number of observations
Number of countries
Cragg-Donald F
Kleibergen-Paap F
R squared (within)

(1)
(2)
(3)
Number of ODA projects
2.858*
(1.79)
3.176***
(3.48)
18.421
(1.63)
3.821
-4.231
4.413
(1.22)
(0.98)
(1.06)
2003
2003
2003
2016
2016
2016
1927
1927
1927
150
150
150
46.55
67.88
10.76
13.25
40.27
5.35
0.01
-0.29
-2.49

(4)
(5)
(6)
(log) Chinese ODA amounts
0.568*
(1.94)
3.630**
(2.27)
3.923
(1.49)
4.255
5.528
2.827
(1.29)
(0.86)
(0.79)
2003
2003
2003
2016
2016
2016
1927
1927
1927
150
150
150
39.41
4.65
20.95
8.38
4.94
4.58
-0.01
-5.97
-1.26

(7)
(8)
(9)
(log) DAC ODA commitments
0.901**
(2.23)
1.460**
(2.37)
2.173**
(2.25)
1.909
0.349
1.788
(1.18)
(0.25)
(1.07)
1978
1978
1978
2016
2016
2016
4872
4872
4872
149
149
149
185.87
232.49
80.31
64.17
21.47
15.04
0.04
0.04
-0.04

(10)
(11)
(12)
(log) U.S. ODA commitments
1.534**
(2.31)
1.448***
(2.71)
0.757
(0.98)
0.731
-1.114
0.037
(0.48)
(0.64)
(0.02)
1978
1978
1978
2016
2016
2016
4872
4872
4872
149
149
149
158.14
286.75
119.16
63.97
68.81
47.36
0.03
0.04
0.06

Notes: t-values in parentheses. *** (**, *) indicate statistical significance at the 1% (5%, 10%) level. Sector definitions follow the OECD: “Social Infrastructure & Services” includes health, education,
governance, and water supply and sanitation projects; “Economic Infrastructure & Services” includes transportation projects (e.g., roads, railways, and airports), energy production and distribution
projects, and information and communication technology (ICT) projects (e.g., broadband internet and mobile phone infrastructure); “Production Sector” includes agriculture, fishing, forestry, mining,
industry, trade, and tourism projects.

39

Table 5: Growth effects of Western aid for Chinese aid darlings (based on actual number of Chinese projects)

(log) DAC OOF disbursements (t-2)

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(5’)

(6)

(6’)

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

-0.893

-0.615*

(1.63)

(1.70)
0.750

-0.644

2.604*
(1.90)

(log) DAC ODA commitments (t-2)

1.481
(1.61)

(log) U.S. OOF disbursements (t-2)

-0.936
(0.05)

(log) U.S. ODA commitments (t-2)

2.401
(1.52)

(log) IBRD commitments (t-2)
(log) IDA commitments (t-2)
(log) Population (t-1)
First year

(0.79)

(0.20)

3.432

0.621

-0.923

-1.069

-4.979

0.942

-4.527*

7.740

(1.14)

(0.40)

(0.56)

(0.61)

(1.06)

(0.17)

(1.65)

(1.00)

1978

1978

1978

1978

1997

2002

1993

2002

Last year

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

Number of observations

3801

3807

3807

3807

2102

1206

2519

1206

Number of countries

112

112

112

112

111

118

111

118

Cragg-Donald F

33.34

140.69

0.30

21.04

12.03

19.95

30.26

4.07

Kleibergen-Paap F

12.36

6.14

1.62

4.04

6.39

9.69

15.02

4.95

R squared (within)

-0.16

0.06

0.06

-0.03

-0.19

-0.11

0.07

0.06

Prob > chi2

0.18

0.29

0.97

0.40

0.04

0.21

0.13

0.89

Notes: t-values in parentheses. *** (**, *) indicate statistical significance at the 1% (5%, 10%) level. Prob > chi2 corresponds to testing the hypothesis that the effect of DAC or U.S. aid in “Chinese aid
darlings” is different from the effect in countries that are not “Chinese aid darlings.”

40

Table 6: Growth effects of Western aid for Chinese aid darlings (based on predicted number of Chinese projects)

(log) DAC OOF disbursements (t-2)

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(5’)

(6)

(6’)

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

-0.631

-0.546

(1.20)

(1.44)
1.266

1.738

4.137***
(2.64)

(log) DAC ODA commitments (t-2)

0.779
(1.01)

(log) U.S. OOF disbursements (t-2)

-3.049
(0.09)

(log) U.S. ODA commitments (t-2)

2.672
(0.90)

(log) IBRD commitments (t-2)
(log) IDA commitments (t-2)
(log) Population (t-1)

(1.30)

(0.44)

6.053

-2.100

-3.101

-3.130

-2.911

-0.325

-5.740**

-2.651

(1.33)

(1.15)

(0.82)

(1.58)

(0.59)

(0.06)

(2.01)

(0.20)

First year

1978

1978

1978

1978

1997

2005

1993

2005

Last year

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

Number of observations

3402

3408

3408

3408

1911

1209

2284

1209

Number of countries

99

99

99

99

99

112

99

112

Cragg-Donald F

36.31

117.27

0.10

8.00

10.36

11.43

28.53

1.72

Kleibergen-Paap F

11.12

6.28

0.78

1.28

4.00

10.52

14.41

2.32

R squared (within)

-0.60

0.11

-0.09

-0.04

-0.07

-0.07

0.07

0.02

Prob > chi2

0.01

0.14

0.95

0.69

0.24

0.42

0.03

0.60

Notes: t-values in parentheses. *** (**, *) indicate statistical significance at the 1% (5%, 10%) level. Prob > chi2 corresponds to testing the hypothesis that the effect of DAC or U.S. aid in countries that
are predicted to be “Chinese aid darlings” is different from the effect in countries that are not predicted to be “Chinese aid darlings.”

41

Share of each status in total number of projects
0
20
40
60
80
100

Figure 1: Proportion of Chinese official development projects by status (2000-2014)

62

61

54

61

61

64

65

62

64

61

57

56

50

39

49

22

5
14

18

00

4
20

16

01

24

9

9

18

17

8
15

10

9
17

16

15

13

16
20

10
17
14

16

19

21
19
19

16
12

02

15

18

7

03

14

13

12

9

04

05

13

12

9

8

06

Pipeline: Pledge
Implementation

07

08

09

10

11

12

13

Pipeline: Commitment
Completion

42

16

11

14

0

0

100

20,000

Number of projects
200

300

Amount in millions of 2009 US$
40,000
60,000

400

80,000

Figure 2: Variation in flow types over time (2000-2014)

'00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14
ODA-like
OOF-like

'00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14

Vague (OF)

ODA-like
OOF-like

43

Vague (OF)

Figure 3: Largest sectors by financial value and project numbers

44

Figure 4: World maps of China’s development assistance (2000-2014, project numbers)

Legend:
150 - 200
100 - 150
75 - 100
50 - 75
25 - 50
10 - 25
1 - 10
0
No data

Figure 5: World maps of China’s development assistance (2000-2014, financial amount)

Legend (USD, million):
20000 - 40000
10000 - 20000
5000 - 10000
1000 - 5000
500 - 1000
10 - 500
<10
0
No data

45

Appendix A: The Tracking Underreported Financial Flows (TUFF)
Methodology
TUFF data collection and quality assurance procedures are documented in their entirety in Strange et
al. (2017b). Here we provide a brief summary. The TUFF methodology is divided into three stages: two
stages of primary data collection (project identification and source triangulation) and a third stage to
review and revise individual project records (quality assurance).

In the first stage of primary data collection, researchers identify potential projects at the
donor/lender-recipient/borrower-year unit of analysis through a standardized set of search queries in
Factiva, a Dow Jones-owned media database that draws on approximately 33,000 media sources
worldwide in 28 languages, including newspapers and radio and television transcripts. A machine
learning algorithm is then used to identify the subset of articles retrieved through these Factiva queries
that are most likely to contain information about officially-financed projects for the donor/lender of
interest.

58

Researchers then review each of the Factiva records that the machine learning algorithm

has classified as “relevant” and make case-by-case determinations about whether those records
contain information about an officially financed project by the donor/lender of interest. In parallel,
researchers retrieve all individual projects that are financed by the donor/lender of interest and
recorded in (a) the aid and debt information management systems of recipient/borrower countries, (b)
IMF country reports, and (c) the websites of Chinese embassies and Chinese Economic and
Commercial Counselor Offices (ECCOs).

Once a potential project has been identified during the first stage of data collection, it is entered into
our data management platform with a unique identification number and assigned to a different
researcher for a second stage of record review and augmentation. During this second stage, the
researcher performs a set of targeted online searches to validate, invalidate, and/or enrich the
project-level information that was retrieved in the first stage. These searches are conducted in English,
Chinese and recipient/borrower country languages by trained language experts and native speakers
58

The machine learning tool that is used relies upon large amounts of training data (i.e., past articles that were identified via
Factiva and later classified by researchers as containing or not containing information about projects financed by the official
donor/lender of interest) to “teach” the algorithm to accurately classify hundreds of thousands of articles into “relevant” and
“irrelevant” categories. Use of this tool significantly reduces the amount of time that researchers would otherwise spend
reviewing articles that contain no information about projects financed by the official donor/lender of interest (“false positives”).
46

in order to improve record accuracy and completeness. The researcher also seeks to collect
supplementary information from government sources (e.g., annual reports published by the lender or
granting agency), field reports published by NGOs and implementing entities (e.g., private
contractors), scholarly research (e.g., case studies of particular projects, doctoral dissertations on the
development finance activities of a particular donor/lender in a particular country), and experts with
information or knowledge about specific projects that is not in the public domain or is not easily
identifiable (e.g., photographic evidence of a project’s current status). This process of project-level
investigation and triangulation is designed to reduce the risk of over-reliance on individual sources,
such as media reports, that might be inaccurate or incomplete.

The third stage of the TUFF methodology involves the systematic implementation of data quality
assurance procedures to maximize the reliability and completeness of project records. First, a set of
de-duplication procedures is implemented in order to minimize the risk of double counting. Second,
to account for the fact that idiosyncratic coding decisions made by individual researchers can result in
inconsistencies across project records, a set of automated data checks are undertaken to limit
discretion and eliminate illogical and inconsistent codings.

59

Third, each project record in the dataset

is vetted by a program manager—who oversees the team of research assistants—or a senior research
assistant appointed by the program manager to identify potential errors, missing data, or incorrect
categorizations. Fourth, the dataset then undergoes another layer of review that focuses specifically on
projects with low “health of record” scores and large-scale projects (as indicated by the financial value
60

of the transaction).

Finally, the dataset as a whole is subjected to several rounds of careful scrutiny by

AidData staff and external peer reviewers.

61

Internal and external reviewers not only seek to identify

59

For example, China Development Bank (CDB) offers finance on commercial, rather than concessional, terms, so an automated
decision rule disallows CDB finance from ever being categorized as Official Development Assistance (ODA). Likewise, the China
Export-Import Bank offers loans and export credits at commercial and concessional rates, but does not offer grants or
interest-free loans, so an automated decision rule disallows any project financed by the China Export-Import Bank to ever be
categorized as a grant or interest-free loan.
60

“Health of record” scores are calculated in order to systematically identify projects that might benefit from additional sourcing
or investigation. More specifically, for all projects in the dataset, source triangulation and data completeness scores are
calculated. Whereas the source triangulation indicator captures the number and diversity of information sources supporting a
given project record, the data completeness indicator measures the extent to which fields/variables for a given project record
are populated with missing or vague information.

61

More than 30 external and internal reviewers were involved in this process for the version of the dataset used in this paper.
Also, feedback provided by users of a dynamic online platform (at china.aiddata.org) is reviewed and, where appropriate, used
to update project records. For example, a PhD student helped AidData to vet and augment project records in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo with information she directly gathered through extensive fieldwork in that country. In another instance,
Chinese Ministry of Health officials and Chinese university faculty identified missing information about in-kind, medical supply
47

errors of omission and commission, but also flag inconsistencies that should be addressed and
additional sources that should be consulted.

62

donations made during recurring visits from Chinese medical teams. When a credible source of information about these
donations was furnished, new project records were added to the dataset.
62

Among other things, these reviewers (a) generate descriptive statistics with the dataset and compare them to official and
third-party estimates to identify anomalies or suspicious results; and (b) review individual project records to suggest potential
ways to address errors, biases, and gaps.
48

Appendix B: Additional Tables and Figures in Section 2
Appendix B1: Flow type and flow class (number of projects)

Grant

ODA-like
OOF-like
Vague (Official Finance)

310

Loan (excluding debt rescheduling)

ODA-like
OOF-like
Vague (Official Finance)

310

2014

416
274

Free-standing technical assistance

ODA-like
OOF-like
Vague (Official Finance)

Export credits

ODA-like
OOF-like
Vague (Official Finance)

Debt forgiveness

ODA-like
OOF-like
Vague (Official Finance)

Scholarships/training in the donor country

ODA-like
OOF-like
Vague (Official Finance)
ODA-like
OOF-like
Vague (Official Finance)

4

Vague (undetermined)

ODA-like
OOF-like
Vague (Official Finance)

16

Debt rescheduling

Strategic/Supplier Credit

ODA-like
OOF-like
Vague (Official Finance)

483
34

127

75

132
11

6
81

11

0

500

49

1,000
Number of projects

1,500

2,000

Appendix B2: Most important world regions
Rank
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

World region
Africa
Central and Eastern Europe
Latin America
South Asia
Southeast Asia
Central and North Asia
Middle East
The Pacific

Total official finance
m$
#
118,074
56,718
53,389
48,763
39,237
28,491
3,083
2,813

34%
16%
15%
14%
11%
8%
1%
1%

2,345
171
317
423
507
183
93
265

m$
54%
4%
7%
10%
12%
4%
2%
6%

46,052
2,751
9,877
7,987
5,951
4,391
409
2,157

ODA-like
#
58%
3%
12%
10%
7%
6%
1%
3%

1,855
62
165
294
362
109
66
227

59%
2%
5%
9%
12%
3%
2%
7%

Appendix B3: Most important recipient countries (number of projects)
Rank
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
…
18
…
43
43
43
…
49
…
64
…
136
136
136

World region
Cambodia
Pakistan
Zimbabwe
Angola
Sudan
Tanzania
Ghana
Kenya
Ethiopia
Sri Lanka

Recipient country
Southeast Asia
South Asia
Africa
Africa
Africa
Africa
Africa
Africa
Africa
South Asia

#
168
121
120
110
108
101
95
89
88
86

Papua New Guinea

The Pacific

68

Belarus
Kyrgyz Republic
Uzbekistan

Central and Eastern Europe
Central and North Asia
Central and North Asia

33
33
33

Bolivia

Latin America and the Caribbean

31

Yemen

Middle East

24

Sao Tome & Principe
United Arab Emirates
Australia

Africa
Middle East
The Pacific

1
1
1

50

Appendix B4: Largest 25 officially-financed Chinese projects by financial amount (in millions of constant 2009 U.S.$)
Rank

Recipient country

Year

Title (shortened)

Flow class

Flow type

1

Russia

2009

OOF-like

Loan

20,356

2

Russia

2009

Part 1: CDB loan to Russian Roseneft and Transneft
Development
Bank and Transneft
Part 2: CDB loan to
Russian Roseneft

Amount

OOF-like

Loan

13,571

3

Laos

2012

EXIM Bank loan for construction of Kunming-Vientiane high-speed railway link

OOF-like

Loan

7,625

4

Cuba

2011

China forgives U.S.$ 6 billion worth of Cuban Debt

ODA-like

Debt

6,660
5,428

5

Turkmenistan

2009

China Provides 4 Billion USD for South Yolotan—Osman Field Development

OOF-like

forgiveness
Loan

6

Turkmenistan

2011

China Provides 4.1 Billion USD for Ioujno-Elotenshoie Field Development

OOF-like

Loan

4,551

7

Venezuela

2011

ICBC loans Venezuela oil firm 4 billion USD for construction of housing projects

OOF-like

Loan

4,440

8

Brazil

2010

China Development Bank extends $3.5 billion USD loan to Petrobras from $5 billion line of credit

OOF-like

Loan

4,402

9

Venezuela

2013

CDB funds $4 billion PDVSA and CNPC joint venture Sinovensa in Orinoco belt

OOF-like

Loan

4,087

10

Pakistan

2014

Part III: China's financial package loan includes preferential buyer credit for Karachi Nuclear Power Plant's K-2/K-3

OOF-like

Export

4,001

11

Ukraine

2012

China EXIM Bank agrees USD3B for Ukraine Agricultural Projects

OOF-like

credits
Loan

3,177

12

Belarus

2013

China Exim Bank and CDB loan 3 billion USD in total for China-Belarus Industrial Park

OOF-like

Loan

3,050

13

Ethiopia

2013

Chinese Banks Loan 3.3 Billion USD for Addis Ababa-Djibouti Railway Project

Vague (OF)

Loan

2,847

14

Bahamas

2011

China EXIM Bank loans $2.45 billion to Bahamas for the Baha Mar Resort

OOF-like

Loan

2,719

15

Ethiopia

2011

China loans 2,400 million USD for Rail Line From Sebeta to Adama in Ethiopia

Vague (OF)

Loan

2,664

16

Pakistan

2014

China pledges loan of 233.4177 billion rupees to Pakistan for Karachi-Lahore highway

Vague (OF)

Loan

2,309

17

Pakistan

2014

Part II: China's financial package loan includes buyer credit for Karachi Nuclear Power Plant's K-2/K-3

OOF-like

Export

2,250

18

South Africa

2013

ICBC signs funding support agreement for South African renewable energy projects

OOF-like

credits
Loan

2,237

19

Angola

2011

CDB loans $2 billion USD to oil company Sonangol in Angola

OOF-like

Loan

2,220

20

Ecuador

2011

Ecuador Signs $2B loan with CDB for renewable energy purposes

OOF-like

Loan

2,220

21

Iran

2014

CMC and SUPOWER signed agreement on the railway electrification program

Vague (OF)

Loan

2,143

22

Cote D'Ivoire

2012

Chinese company building railway in Ivory Coast from Man to San Pedro

ODA-like

Loan

2,118

23

Argentina

2014

China commits 2.1 Billion USD loan for rehabilitation of Belgrano Cargas railway

OOF-like

Loan

2,100

24

Angola

2014

CDB provided $2 billion USD loan to Sonangol

OOF-like

Loan

2,000

25

Pakistan

2011

Loans from Silk Road Fund, EXIM, and CDB for Korrak hydropower project/ Korat Dam in Pakistan

OOF-like

Loan

1,831

51

Appendix B5: Largest 25 development projects by sector (in millions of constant 2009 U.S.$)
Sector (in alphabetic order)

Recipient

Year

Title (shortened)

Flow class

Flow type

Action Relating to Debt

Cuba

2011

China forgives U.S.$ 6 billion worth of Cuban Debt

ODA-like

Debt

6,660

Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing

Ukraine

2012

China EXIM Bank agrees USD3B for Ukraine Agricultural Projects

OOF-like

forgivenes
Loan

3,177

Banking and Financial Services

South Africa

2009

Chinese banks sign $1 billion loan facility for South Africa's Standard Bank

OOF-like

sLoan

1,357

Business and Other Services

Belarus

2013

China Exim Bank and CDB loan for China-Belarus Industrial Park

OOF-like

Loan

3,050

Communications

India

2010

Reliance Industries in India Ordered Equipment from Shanghai Electric

OOF-like

Loan

1,383

Developmental Food Aid etc.

Somalia

2011

China Grants 16 million USD for Humanitarian Interventions in Somalia

ODA-like

Grant

18

Education

Angola

2006

China constructs several institutes in Angola for $93.2 million

OOF-like

Loan

171

Emergency Response

Pakistan

2007

Grant for repatriation of Afghan refugees from Pakistan

ODA-like

Grant

651

Energy Generation and Supply

Russia

2009

Rosneft takes out loan from China Development Bank

OOF-like

Loan

20,356

General Budget Support

Sudan

2012

$1.5 billion loan from China Development Bank

OOF-like

Loan

1,589

General Environmental Protection

Jamaica

2010

China ExIm bank loans Jamaica to repair and protect the shoreline of Palisadoes

Vague

Loan

73

Government and Civil Society

Ecuador

2012

China commits a loan of $240 million to Ecuador to set up security service ECU 911

(OF)
Vague

Loan

254

Health

Trinidad & Tobago

2013

Trinidad and Tobago Children's Hospital with concessional loan

(OF)
OOF-like

Loan

153

Industry, Mining, Construction

Turkmenistan

2009

China Provides 4 Billion USD for South Yolotan_„_Osman Field Development

OOF-like

Loan

5,428

Non-food commodity assistance

Pakistan

2010

China donates 40000 wheel chairs to Pakistani charity Bait ul Maal

ODA-like

Grant

37

Other Multisector

Ecuador

2011

Ecuador Signs $2B loan with CDB for renewable energy purposes

OOF-like

Loan

2,220

Other Social infrastructure and

Venezuela

2011

ICBC loans Venezuela oil firm 4 billion USD for construction of housing projects

OOF-like

Loan

4,440

services
Population Policies etc.

Zimbabwe

2012

China provides 4.5 million RMB loan for neonatal equipment in Zimbabwe

Vague

Loan

1

Support to NGOs and GOs

Zimbabwe

2010

Zimbabwe miners' association received 10 million USD grant from China

(OF)
ODA-like

Grant

13

Trade and Tourism

Bahamas

2011

China EXIM Bank loans $2.45 billion to Bahamas for the Baha Mar Resort

OOF-like

Loan

2,719

Transport and Storage

Laos

2012

EXIM Bank loan for construction of Kunming-Vientiane high-speed railway link

OOF-like

Loan

7,625

Unallocated / Unspecified

Ethiopia

2006

China loans Ethiopia 500 million USD for unspecified development projects

Vague

Loan

920

Water Supply and Sanitation

Cameroon

2009

China loans 366 billion CFA to Cameroon for water distribution project

(OF)
ODA-like

Loan

1,052

Women in Development

Chad

2012

Grant to Construct Women's Center

ODA-like

Grant

12

52

Amount

Appendix B6: Average project size by country (in millions of constant 2009 U.S.$)
Rank
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
11
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
…

Recipient country
Russia
Turkmenistan
Cuba
Brazil
Venezuela
India
Argentina
South Africa
Ecuador
Kazakhstan
Iran
Bahamas
Montenegro
Ukraine
Turkey
Bosnia-Herzegovina
Belarus
Chile
Pakistan
Laos
…

Amount
3,052
1,525
1,356
1,218
1,122
796
773
628
622
591
430
360
340
314
301
287
283
279
276
267
…

Note: For obvious reasons, this table excludes projects without information on their respective financial value.

Appendix B7: Most important recipient countries (financial value, in millions of constant 2009 U.S.$)
Rank
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
…
37
…
58
…

Recipient country
Russia
Pakistan
Angola
Ethiopia
Sri Lanka
Laos
Venezuela
Turkmenistan
Sudan
Ecuador

World region
Central and Eastern Europe
South Asia
Africa
Africa
South Asia
Southeast Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean
Central and North Asia
Africa
Latin America and the Caribbean

Amount
36,623
24,325
16,556
14,834
12,680
12,016
11,219
10,676
10,237
9,953

Iran

Middle East

2,148

Fiji

The Pacific

1,039

53

.5

Appendix B8: Share of projects with unknown financial amount by year (2000-2014)
0.48
0.43 0.43

.4

Share of projects with unknown size

0.41

0.45
0.42

0.38

0.37
0.35
0.33

0.33

0.33

0.27

0.20

0

.1

.2

.3

0.30

'00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 '14

Appendix B9: Average project size by flow type and share of missing financial value
Rank

Flow type

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

Export credits
Loan (excluding debt rescheduling)
Strategic/Supplier Credit
Debt forgiveness
Debt rescheduling
Vague (undetermined)
Grant
Free-standing technical assistance
Scholarships/training in the donor country

Average project size
(in U.S.$ million)
333
304
206
175
44
41
9
8
1

54

Missing financial amount
(share of projects in %)
6
8
0
12
25
34
40
92
92

Appendix C: Additional Tables and Figures in Section 3
Appendix C1: Parallel trends plots for instrument using the interaction of Chinese steel
production and the probability of receiving Chinese aid

Note: The upper Panel shows how Chinese steel production varies over time. The middle Panel shows average aid within the
group that is below the median of the probability of receiving aid and the group that is above the median over time. The lower
Panel shows the average real GDP per capita growth rate within these two groups over time. For the construction of the averages
we use observations from the sample of column 3 in Table 1.

55

Appendix C2: Growth effects of Chinese aid (including exports and FDI)

Number of OOF/vague projects (t-2)

(1)
2SLS
-0.448
(0.54)

Chinese ODA projects (t-2)

(2)
2SLS

(3)
2SLS

1.882***
(2.96)

(log) Chinese OOF/vague amounts (t-2)

-0.072
(0.54)

(log) Chinese ODA amounts (t-2)
(log) Population (t-1)
Chinese Exports*prob. Aid (t-3)
Chinese FDI*prob. Aid (t-3)
First year
Last year
Number of observations
Number of countries
Cragg-Donald F
Kleibergen-Paap F
R squared (within)

(4)
2SLS

-1.059
(0.63)
0.944
(1.24)
5.626*
(1.87)
2002
2016
2076
151
40.05
17.46
0.07

-3.688**
(2.14)
0.774
(1.01)
0.496
(0.13)
2002
2016
2076
151
28.18
23.52
-0.30

-1.303
(0.91)
1.029
(1.46)
6.198**
(2.06)
2002
2016
2076
151
117.24
27.59
0.08

Notes: t-values in parentheses. *** (**, *) indicate statistical significance at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

56

1.804*
(1.82)
-6.583**
(2.03)
1.949*
(1.70)
6.110
(1.19)
2002
2016
2076
151
4.46
4.74
-2.62

Appendix C3: Growth effects of Chinese and Western aid (budget instruments, broad aid sectors)

Economic Infrastructure & Services
Social Infrastructure & Services
Production Sectors
(log) Population (t-1)
First year
Last year
Number of observations
Number of countries
Cragg-Donald F
Kleibergen-Paap F
R squared (within)

(1)
(2)
(3)
Number of ODA projects
2.858*
(1.79)
3.176***
(3.48)
18.421
(1.63)
3.821
-4.231
4.413
(1.22)
(0.98)
(1.06)
2003
2003
2003
2016
2016
2016
1927
1927
1927
150
150
150
46.55
67.88
10.76
13.25
40.27
5.35
0.01
-0.29
-2.49

(4)
(5)
(6)
(log) Chinese ODA amounts
0.568*
(1.94)
3.630**
(2.27)
3.923
(1.49)
4.255
5.528
2.827
(1.29)
(0.86)
(0.79)
2003
2003
2003
2016
2016
2016
1927
1927
1927
150
150
150
39.41
4.65
20.95
8.38
4.94
4.58
-0.01
-5.97
-1.26

Notes: t-values in parentheses. *** (**, *) indicate statistical significance at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

57

(7)
(8)
(9)
(log) DAC ODA commitments
1.074
(0.47)
-44.693
(0.10)
4.987
(1.45)
2.351
27.061
-6.854
(0.44)
(0.11)
(0.72)
2003
2003
2003
2016
2016
2016
1869
1869
1869
141
141
141
6.18
0.05
8.54
3.28
0.01
3.09
0.02
-32.75
-0.51

(10)
(11)
(12)
(log) U.S. ODA commitments
-0.207
(0.15)
-4.834
(0.40)
1.792
(1.04)
4.675
15.594
-0.272
(0.80)
(0.52)
(0.05)
2003
2003
2003
2016
2016
2016
1869
1869
1869
141
141
141
18.16
0.86
20.54
13.96
0.20
14.74
0.08
-0.45
0.01

Appendix D: Alternative Instruments for Western Aid
This appendix replicates our analysis of the growth effects of aid with recently proposed instruments
for Western aid donors. While these IVs are arguably more exogenous than our interacted aid budget
instrument applied in the paper, they come with the disadvantage that the resulting LATEs are not
comparable across donors.

Our instrumental variables for U.S. and OECD-DAC development aid follow Ahmed (2016) and Dreher
and Langlotz (2017), exploiting variation in the composition of the government and legislative
institutions. To the extent that government and legislative fractionalization lead to larger government
budgets, and larger government budgets lead to an increase in the budget share devoted to foreign
aid, fractionalization serves as a powerful instrument.

63

Specifically, we use legislative fractionalization

in the United States’ House of Representatives to instrument U.S. aid, and government fractionalization
in donor countries to instrument OECD-DAC aid. We again introduce variation at the recipient-country
level by interacting fractionalization with the probability of receiving aid, measured as the share of
years in the study period during which a country receives aid from the respective donor. The
corresponding first-stage regression equation for U.S. aid reads as follows:

𝐴𝑖𝑑!"#,!,!!! =γ! 𝐿𝑒𝑔𝐹𝑟𝑎𝑐!!! ∗ 𝑝!"#,! +γ! 𝑝𝑜𝑝!,!!! + γ! 𝜂! + γ! 𝜇! + 𝑢!,!!! ,

(3)

where our instrument for AidUSA,i,t-2 is the interaction of U.S. legislative fractionalization 𝐿𝑒𝑔𝐹𝑟𝑎𝑐!!! ,
which varies across time, and the probability of receiving U.S. aid pUSA,i, which varies across recipient
countries. In the case of OECD-DAC, we aggregate our instrument over the 28 member countries j,
which is why we obtain the following slightly different first-stage regression equation:

𝐴𝑖𝑑!"#,!,!!! =γ!

! 𝐺𝑜𝑣𝐹𝑟𝑎𝑐!,!!! ∗

! 𝑝!,!

+γ! 𝑝𝑜𝑝!,!!! + γ! 𝜂! + γ! 𝜇! + 𝑢!,!!! .

(4)

Our instrument for AidDAC,i,t-τ is the interaction of the sum over each donor country’s government
fractionalization 𝐺𝑜𝑣𝐹𝑟𝑎𝑐!,!!! , which varies across time, and the sum over each donor of the respective
63

Among others, Volkerink and de Haan (2001) show that legislature fragmentation increases government expenditures; Brech
and Potrafke (2014) demonstrate that overall expenditures as a share of GDP significantly determine aid budgets.
58

64

probability of receiving aid pj,i, which varies across recipient countries.

To the extent that variables

correlated with fractionalization do not affect recipients’ rates of growth differently in regular and
irregular recipients of aid, controlled for recipient-country- and year-fixed effects, the resulting
instrument is excludable (see Dreher and Langlotz 2017 for a detailed discussion).

Our instruments for World Bank aid build on Galiani et al. (2017) and use a binary variable for whether
a recipient has passed the IDA’s threshold for concessional aid eligibility 𝐶𝑟𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑔!,!!! .

65

After a

country surpasses this income, it loses eligibility for IDA grants. Galiani et al. (2017) find that aggregate
aid from DAC donors decreases after recipients pass the income threshold. However, the World Bank
itself may substitute the reduction in IDA funding with increases in IBRD loans. We thus expect the
binary variable to be negatively correlated with the amount of IDA grants. We have no clear
expectation regarding the direction of its correlation with the amount of IBRD loans that a country
receives. We interact this variable with the probability of receiving IBRD (IDA) aid pWB,i, in keeping with
Dreher and Lohmann (2015). Arguably, countries that did not receive aid prior to passing the
threshold will not experience any downfall, while countries receiving aid in most or all years will be ‘hit
harder.’

66

The corresponding first-stage regression equation for World Bank aid reads as follows:

𝐴𝑖𝑑!",!,!!! =γ! 𝐶𝑟𝑜𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑛𝑔!!! ∗ 𝑝!",! + γ! 𝑝𝑜𝑝!,!!! +γ! 𝜂! + γ! 𝜇! + 𝑢!,!!! .

(5)

Table D1 presents the results. They are consistent across Western donors. We find that neither
OECD-DAC nor United States nor World Bank aid promotes economic growth in recipient countries.

67

The corresponding coefficients do not reach statistical significance in any specification. However, the
first-stage F statistic is comparably low for U.S. OOF and IBRD and IDA commitments, which likely
biases these results. What is more, as highlighted above, the estimates are hardly comparable across
64

Note that this approach is identical to estimating a dyadic donor-recipient zero-stage regression, then aggregating across
donors for each recipient in a year t, and using the aggregate as instrument for aid in the Two-Stage Least Squares regression
(Dreher and Langlotz 2017). Following Dreher and Langlotz (2017) we replace government fractionalization with legislature
fractionalization for the United States and Canada (given that government fractionalization is always zero there).

65

As Galiani et al. (2017) explain, the IDA graduation process begins only three years after a country crosses the threshold. We
use a five-year lag to allow for sufficient time between graduation and the decrease in new commitments to take effect.
66

Note that the power of the instrument is insufficiently low when we use the level of the threshold without interaction.

67

Galiani et al. (2017) exploit the IDA eligibility cutoff to estimate the causal effect of aggregate aid from all bilateral and
multilateral donors on economic growth. They find that, in the aggregate, aid increases economic growth. By contrast, we use
the IDA eligibility cutoff as an instrument for World Bank aid only. Therefore, our findings do not necessarily contradict the
findings of Galiani et al. (2017).
59

donors due to the different LATEs resulting from the use of different instruments. To address this
problem, Table 2 applies an alternative approach, relying on aid budgets interacted with a recipient’s
probability of receiving aid to predict year-to-year changes in aid (see Temple and Van de Sijpe 2017
for a similar empirical strategy). In any case, the insignificant results we obtain for Western aid based
on the alternative LATEs strengthen our conclusion regarding the lack of any evidence pointing to the
inferiority of Chinese aid compared to Western aid.

60

Appendix D1: Growth effects of Western aid (alternative instruments)

(log) DAC OOF disbursements (t-2)

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

2SLS

1.455
(1.21)

(log) DAC ODA commitments (t-2)

0.198
(0.23)

(log) U.S. OOF disbursements (t-2)

2.985
(0.76)

(log) U.S. ODA commitments (t-2)

0.520
(0.85)

(log) IBRD commitments (t-2)

-0.292
(0.96)

(log) IDA commitments (t-2)

0.722
(0.61)

(log) Population (t-1)
First year

2.191

0.132

-0.580

-0.685

0.669

0.392

(1.04)

(0.08)

(0.45)

(0.55)

(0.48)

(0.21)

1978

1978

1972

1972

1975

1975

Last year

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

2016

Number of observations

4990

4995

5465

5464

4700

4699

Number of countries

157

157

155

155

158

158

Cragg-Donald F

67.95

92.98

8.99

117.91

7.75

13.93

Kleibergen-Paap F

14.60

14.45

4.24

14.27

4.01

6.67

R squared (within)

-0.01

0.07

-0.05

0.07

0.02

0.06

Notes: t-values in parentheses.

61

