Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect

Journal of Development Economics
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/devec

African leaders and the geography of China’s foreign assistance
Axel Dreher a,b,c,d,e , Andreas Fuchs f,g , Roland Hodler c,e,h , Bradley C. Parks i,j ,
Paul A. Raschky k, ∗ , Michael J. Tierney l
a

Alfred-Weber-Institute for Economics, Heidelberg University, Germany

b KOF Swiss Economic Institute, Switzerland
c

CEPR, UK
Georg-August University Goettingen, Germany
e CESifo, Germany
f
Faculty of Economic and Social Sciences, Helmut-Schmidt-University Hamburg (HSU/UniBwH), Germany
g Research Area “Poverty Reduction, Equity, and Development”, Kiel Institute for the World Economy, Germany
h
Department of Economics and SIAW-HSG, University of St. Gallen, Switzerland
i
AidData, Global Research Institute, The College of William and Mary, USA
j Center for Global Development, USA
k
Department of Economics, Monash University, Australia
l Department of Government, The College of William and Mary, USA
d

A R T I C L E

I N F O

JEL classiﬁcations:
D73
F35
P33
R11
Keywords:
foreign aid
favoritism
political capture
patronage
clientelism
aid on demand
aid allocation
Africa
China
Oﬃcial Development Assistance
georeferenced data
spatial analysis

A B S T R A C T

We investigate whether foreign aid from China is prone to political capture in aid-receiving countries. Specifically, we examine whether more Chinese aid is allocated to the birth regions of political leaders, controlling
for indicators of need and various ﬁxed eﬀects. We collect data on 117 African leaders’ birthplaces and geocode
1650 Chinese development projects across 2969 physical locations in Africa from 2000 to 2012. Our econometric results show that political leaders’ birth regions receive substantially larger ﬁnancial ﬂows from China in the
years when they hold power compared to what the same region receives at other times. We ﬁnd evidence that
these biases are a consequence of electoral competition: Chinese aid disproportionately beneﬁts politically privileged regions in country-years when incumbents face upcoming elections and when electoral competitiveness is
high. We observe no such pattern of favoritism in the spatial distribution of World Bank development projects.

1. Introduction
Visitors to the village of Yoni, located in Bombali district, Sierra
Leone, will ﬁnd “a wonderful school in the middle of what Africans
call ‘the bush”’ (Acemoglu and Robinson, 2012). The school was built

with Chinese aid, and at the time of its construction in 2010, Yoni was
the hometown of Sierra Leone’s President, Ernest Bai Koroma. A fancy,
new school in the President’s hometown could be a simple coincidence,
but several studies suggest that government oﬃcials systematically
favor their home regions (e.g., Barkan and Chege, 1989; Moser, 2008;

∗ Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: mail@axel-dreher.de (A. Dreher), mail@andreas-fuchs.net (A. Fuchs), roland.hodler@unisg.ch (R. Hodler), bparks@aiddata.wm.edu
(B.C. Parks), paul.raschky@monash.edu (P.A. Raschky), mjtier@wm.edu (M.J. Tierney).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdeveco.2019.04.003
Received 8 August 2018; Received in revised form 12 February 2019; Accepted 14 April 2019
Available online 23 April 2019
0304-3878/© 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Mu and Zhang, 2014; Burgess et al., 2015; Do et al., 2017; De Luca et
al., 2018).1 Hodler and Raschky (2014a) study political favoritism in
a large sample of subnational administrative regions from all over the
world. They ﬁnd that the birth regions of political leaders have higher
levels of nighttime light than other regions when those leaders are in
power, which suggests that governments are systematically directing
additional resources to those areas. Higher foreign aid inﬂows at the
recipient-country level amplify this eﬀect. As such, there are some
grounds to believe that this “school in the bush” might reﬂect a broader
pattern.
In this article, we investigate whether, when, and why African political leaders use foreign aid to favor their birth regions.2 We ﬁrst introduce a new georeferenced dataset on the subnational allocation of Chinese Government-ﬁnanced development projects across Africa over the
2000–2012 period.3 We then use these data to test whether China’s
demand-driven approach to aid allocation is vulnerable to political capture. More speciﬁcally, we study whether Chinese aid is disproportionately allocated to the birth regions of the political leaders of recipient
countries. We run Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) and Poisson PseudoMaximum Likelihood (PPML) models and control for a number of subnational variables and various ﬁxed eﬀects.
Our results show that the birth regions of political leaders receive
larger amounts of Chinese aid—at the ﬁrst and second subnational
administrative level (ADM1 and ADM2).4 These results tend to
be strongest for total oﬃcial ﬁnancing ﬂows—concessional and
non-concessional state ﬁnancing with and without development
intent—from China. Controlling for country-year- and region-ﬁxed
eﬀects, our OLS estimates suggest that Chinese oﬃcial ﬁnancing to a
political leader’s birth ADM1 region nearly triples after that individual
assumes power. When we use a stricter deﬁnition of aid that broadly
aligns with the OECD’s criteria for Oﬃcial Development Assistance
(ODA), our OLS ﬁxed-eﬀects regressions still suggest an aid increase
of more than 75% to the ADM1 birth regions of political leaders. We
do not ﬁnd increases in Chinese aid in the years before leaders assume
power or after they leave oﬃce, which suggests that these eﬀects are
causal.
We argue that our results are consistent with the clientelistic logic
of political survival, which is predominant in Africa, and with Beijing’s

demand-driven approach to aid allocation, which makes Chinese aid
vulnerable to political capture. To test these arguments, we exploit data
on the timing and competitiveness of elections in recipient countries.
We use these data on election pressures to test for heterogeneous treatment eﬀects. We ﬁnd a stronger birth-region bias in the allocation of
Chinese aid in the year before an executive election and when executive elections are more competitive. These results support our argument
that African leaders steer Chinese aid to their birth regions to improve
their chances of staying in power.5
We then replicate our analysis with World Bank projects for comparison. The World Bank is a useful benchmark because it uses a relatively stringent set of project appraisal procedures that should make
it more diﬃcult for political leaders to misuse its ﬁnancial support
for political purposes (Jenkins, 1997; Deininger et al., 1998; Warner,
2010; Clemens and Kremer, 2016).6 In contrast to Chinese aid, we
ﬁnd no evidence that World Bank funding disproportionately beneﬁts the birth regions of political leaders. Nor do we ﬁnd any evidence
of birth-region bias in the allocation of World Bank aid in countryyears when political leaders face upcoming elections. Our empirical
results are therefore consistent with the notion that the Chinese Government’s “on demand” approach to aid allocation is vulnerable to political capture, while World Bank project preparation policies and procedures reduce the risk that its aid will be misused for domestic political
purposes.7
This paper builds upon and contributes to the empirical literature on
aid allocation, which traces its origins to McKinlay and Little (1977).8
This body of research is overwhelmingly focused on “traditional” donor
countries that are members of the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD (OECD-DAC). However, the international development
ﬁnance regime established after World War II is undergoing a period of
unprecedented tumult, with growing competition from donors outside
the OECD-DAC who are challenging prevailing rules and norms (Nielson et al., 2017; Fuchs and Müller, 2018).
Chief among these competitors is China. The conventional wisdom among Western politicians, journalists, and think tanks is that
China—and other donors outside the OECD-DAC—favor corrupt countries and authoritarian regimes and they are more interested in
advancing their own interests (e.g., natural resource acquisition) than
addressing the needs of host country populations (Naím, 2007). However, Dreher et al. (2011) compare the cross-country allocation of
aid from so-called “new” donors (excluding China) and OECD-DAC
donors, and ﬁnd that “new” and “traditional” donors behave similarly.
Dreher and Fuchs (2015) focus on China, speciﬁcally, and using various sources of data on the cross-country allocation of Chinese foreign aid projects, ﬁnd that its aid is not inﬂuenced by the governance characteristics of recipient countries. Nor do they ﬁnd evidence
that China’s aid allocation is motivated by a desire to access natural resources in recipient countries. But Chinese aid does favor poor
and populous countries, and countries that vote with China in the
U.N. General Assembly (Dreher et al., 2018). Therefore, at the coun-

1 When Koroma ﬁrst came to power in 2007, Bombali was one of the country’s poorest districts. However, it experienced signiﬁcant development gains
during the course of Koroma’s ten-year presidency (World Bank, 2013). The
capital of the President’s home district (Makeni) was one of few places in the
country that enjoyed 24 hour access to electricity by the end of his second term
in oﬃce (Inveen, 2017). Bombali, which is one of the country’s four most populous districts, also played an important role in helping Koroma get re-elected
in 2012. He secured 93.2% of the vote there. In the country’s remaining 13
districts, he achieved an average vote share of 51.2%.
2
For ease of exposition, we use the term “aid” to refer to all oﬃcial ﬁnancing
ﬂows (Oﬃcial Development Assistance and Other Oﬃcial Flows). We introduce
more precise, technical deﬁnitions below.
3
This new dataset, which we have made available via http://aiddata.org/
datasets, can be used to investigate important questions related to the nature,
allocation, and impact of Chinese aid. Indeed, since we ﬁrst published this
dataset alongside the working-paper version of this study, it has been used to
investigate how Chinese aid aﬀects household wealth and educational attainment (Martorano et al., 2018), corruption (Brazys et al., 2017; Isaksson and
Kotsadam, 2018a), environmental degradation (BenYishay et al., 2016; Marty
et al., 2019), local conﬂict (Gehring et al., 2018), and trade union membership
(Isaksson and Kotsadam, 2018b).
4 We also tested whether political favoritism related to the allocation of Chinese funding extends to locations with inhabitants that share the same ethnicity
of the current political leader. To identify the possibility of ethnic favoritism in
the allocation of Chinese funding, we changed the unit of observation from
subnational administrative units to ethnic regions within a country. Unlike our
analysis of birth regions, we do not ﬁnd robust evidence for ethnic favoritism.
Appendix F elaborates on this analysis and shows basic results. Details are
reported in the working-paper version of this article (Dreher et al., 2016).

5
In this regard, our results are consistent with Khomba and Trew (2017);
they too ﬁnd that leaders allocate discretionary resources to geographical areas
where the expected probability of voting for the ruling party is high.
6
Another reason for focusing on the World Bank is the lack of geocoded
aid project datasets for bilateral Western donors that cover a suﬃciently large
number of recipient countries during our study period.
7
In the working-paper version of this article (Dreher et al., 2016), we provide preliminary evidence that Chinese aid promotes economic development at
subnational scales, which suggests that the political favoritism that we detect in
our allocation regressions has distributional consequences. We further explore
this in Dreher et al. (2019).
8
Prominent contributions include Maizels and Nissanke (1984), Alesina and
Dollar (2000), Kuziemko and Werker (2006), and Faye and Niehaus (2012). On
the World Bank, see Frey and Schneider (1986), Dreher et al. (2009), and Kilby
(2009).

45

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

large number of voters than private goods (Ichino and Nathan, 2013).11
Observability matters because it provides more opportunities for creditclaiming, which helps leaders maximize voter turnout and inﬂuence
vote choice (Cruz and Schneider, 2017; Marx, 2017; Cruz et al., 2018a,
2018b).
The logic of political survival also suggests that leader incentives
to engage in clientelistic behavior vary over geographic space and
time. A leader should have stronger incentives to target particularistic rewards to those geographic areas that are less likely to engage
in performance-based voting and more likely to engage in clientelistic
voting (Engelsma et al., 2017).12 The home regions of African political leaders are places where clientelistic voting is more likely because
many co-partisans and co-ethnics are geographically concentrated in
these areas (Wahman and Boone, 2018). They are also places where
performance-based voting is unlikely for several reasons. First, voters
in these regions are more likely to receive and believe misleading information about the political leader (as they are more trusting of the
messengers who transmit such information).13 Second, even if rational voters from the political leader’s home region are disappointed in
the performance of the incumbent, they may still support him if they
expect that their co-partisans from the same region will support him or
if they expect even worse treatment from a new political leader from
another home region.14 Therefore, from the vantage point of a voteseeking political leader, club good provision to one’s home region is a
reliable and cost-eﬀective method of buying votes. But the strength of
this incentive should vary over time—in particular, the incentive to target particularistic rewards (club goods) to one’s home region should
be strongest when the risk of being removed from oﬃce is highest
(Briggs, 2012; Labonne, 2016; Marx, 2017).
Three observable implications follow from this argument about
the clientelistic logic of political survival in Africa. First, biases in
the allocation of foreign aid projects should be most acute among
projects ﬁnanced by donors that grant high levels of site selection
authority to incumbent political leaders of the recipient country. Second, any bias towards the home region of an incumbent political
leader should be more acute in the run-up to an election. That is

try level, Chinese aid does not seem to be allocated very diﬀerently
from Western aid. Both are a function of recipient need and donor
interest.
In contrast to previous work on Chinese aid, this study focuses on the
subnational allocation of aid. While we are not the ﬁrst to investigate
the allocation of foreign aid within countries, until recently research
that relies on subnationally geocoded aid data focus on a single country (e.g., Francken et al., 2012; Briggs, 2014; Jablonski, 2014; Nunnenkamp et al., 2017), or on a cross-section of subnational localities
from diﬀerent countries (e.g., Findley et al., 2011; Engelsma et al.,
2017).9 In this article, we analyze geocoded data for a large number
of recipient countries over an extended period of time. This research
design provides signiﬁcant advantages over previous studies. If one
focuses exclusively on cross-sectional variation, a positive association
between the location of aid projects and the location of a leader’s birthplace could simply be driven by permanent or highly persistent regionspeciﬁc characteristics. We rely on variation across regions and over
time in tandem with binary variables for the years just prior to and after
the political leader’s term in oﬃce. This approach allows us to estimate
the causal eﬀects of a political leader’s birth region on the amount of
aid it receives. The second diﬀerence between this paper and previous
contributions is our focus on Chinese aid rather than aid allocated by
“traditional” donors.
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 2 draws
upon the logic of political survival to identify a set of testable implications about when and how aid is likely to be used by political leaders
in host countries to stay in power. It also explains why Chinese aid
might be particularly vulnerable to this type of political manipulation.
In Section 3, we introduce our new dataset on Chinese development
projects and leader characteristics at the subnational level. We also
describe our empirical strategy. Section 4 presents our empirical ﬁndings. In Section 5, we conclude and outline potentially fruitful avenues
for future research.
2. The logic of political survival and aid allocation to leader birth
regions
Leaders who must compete in elections to stay in power have diﬀerent resource allocation incentives than leaders who do not face such
electoral pressures (Bueno de Mesquita et al., 2003). In Africa, the
logic of political survival is generally governed by clientelism, whereby
politicians provide particularistic rewards to their core constituents (or
“clients”) in exchange for votes (Wantchekon, 2003; van de Walle,
2007; Casey, 2015).10 Therefore, African leaders who must compete
in nationwide elections have strong incentives to provide particularistic rewards to the speciﬁc geographic areas where they have the best
odds of inﬂuencing ﬁnal election outcomes. These rewards can be private goods (cash, commodities, housing) or club goods (schools, clinics,
water wells, electricity) since, in either case, leaders can grant access to
some individuals and communities and deny access to others (Kimenyi,
2006; Kramon, 2017). However, in clientelistic political systems, politicians have particularly strong incentives to provide club goods because
they are targetable like private goods, but more easily observed by a

11
By contrast, in political systems where performance-based voting is prevalent, politicians have strong incentives to provide pure public goods that are
non-rival in consumption and non-excludable—for example, a well-managed
economy or polity (Wahman and Boone, 2018).
12
Stated diﬀerently, even in political systems where clientelism is prevalent,
leaders know that they face two diﬀerent types of voters—those who will vote
on a clientelistic basis (delivery of club goods and private goods) and those who
will vote on a performance basis (delivery of nationwide public goods)—and
they have to decide in which geographical areas the provision of particularistic
rewards will return the most votes. Given resource constraints, a leader will prioritize the allocation of club and private goods to voters in geographical areas
where the expected probability of clientelistic voting is high and not where the
expected probability of performance-based voting is high. Evenly distributing
clientelistic rewards across regions is not politically rational if leaders anticipate that voters will be diﬀerentially responsive to such rewards.
13
Horowitz and Long (2016: 354) provide evidence that, in the run-up to the
2007 election, Kenyan voters from the home (ethnic) regions of presidential
candidates mostly received news from so-called “vernacular” radio stations that
targeted their speciﬁc home (ethnic) communities: Kenyans in Kikuyu areas
predominantly listened to Kikuyu-language radio stations; Kenyans in Kamba
areas predominantly listened to Kamba-language radio stations; and Kenyans
in Luo areas predominantly listened to Luo-language radio stations. Horowitz
and Long (2016) also provide evidence that each “vernacular” radio station
allocated “disproportionate airtime to the co-ethnic candidate of the language
group it served,” making it easier for the political candidates to provide misleading information to voters in their home (ethnic) regions (without being
challenged or corrected by their competitors).
14
Indeed, it is rational to vote for a poorly-performing political incumbent if
you expect that a new political leader will target clientelistic beneﬁts to copartisans in a region other than your own (Padró i Miquel, 2007; van de Walle,
2007).

9
A notable exception is Öhler and Nunnenkamp (2014), who—among
others—also investigate whether more World Bank projects are sited in leader
regions in Africa, but their results are based on limited variation from just 17
African countries.
10
The clientelist logic of political survival also suggests that leaders may seek
to build inclusive coalitions and insure against coups and revolutions by allocating patronage to elites in proportion to the size of the ethnic groups to which
they belong (Francois et al., 2015). Testing this theoretical prediction is beyond
the scope of our present study, but it represents a promising avenue for future
research.

46

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

to say, as an election nears, it should become more important for
the political leader to provide targeted beneﬁts to his or her core
voters. But this eﬀect may not be present for all types of elections.
Most African countries have political systems characterized by strong
presidents (Robinson and Torvik, 2016), so one would expect the
eﬀect to be most pronounced during executive elections—in particular, competitive executive elections. Third, to the extent that there
is a higher probability of clientelistic voting in home provinces, it is
possible that political leaders may broadly distribute aid across the
districts in their home provinces rather than narrowly distribute aid
within their home district. This type of resource allocation strategy
should help political leaders maximize voter turnout in stronghold
areas.15,16
In the remainder of this section, we focus on the cross-donor variation in the degree to which host governments are granted discretion
over project site selection. We compare two donors with widely divergent systems for designing, selecting, and locating new development
projects: the World Bank and China.
In principle, every project that the World Bank considers ﬁnancing must be subjected to cost-beneﬁt analysis prior to approval. A
simple rule for project acceptability was codiﬁed in 1994 through
the adoption of Operational Policy (OP) 10.04 (“Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations”): projects that are approved for World
Bank ﬁnancing should “[create] more net beneﬁts to the economy
than other mutually exclusive options for the use of the resources
in question.”17 OP 10.04 further stipulates that the World Bank staﬀ
should evaluate “the project’s consistency with the Bank’s poverty
reduction strategy” and “[consider] mechanisms for targeting the poor”
(World Bank, 1994). According to the World Bank’s Independent Evaluation Group, one of the main motivations for the adoption of OP
10.04 was to create “a safeguard against project choices being captured by narrow political or sectional interests” (Warner, 2010: 2).
Elaborating on this point, Warner (2010: 2) notes that “[e]ﬃciency
considerations always compete with other motives in project selection,
and the policy is designed to give eﬃciency the upper hand in this
competition.”
Even though not all World Bank projects are subjected to costbeneﬁt analysis or distributional analysis in practice (Warner, 2010),
these project appraisal procedures appear to be signiﬁcantly more
robust than those used to vet prospective Chinese aid projects. We consulted with two former employees of the Department of Foreign Aid
(DFA) within China’s Ministry of Commerce and they both informed
us that there is no comparable set of economic analysis procedures in
place to screen and select candidate projects.18 Instead, China uses a

demand-driven approach to select and site aid projects.
This approach is best understood in the context of one of the foundational principles of China’s foreign aid policy: non-interference in the
internal aﬀairs of recipient countries and respect for their sovereignty.
The principle can be traced back to the Final Communiqué of the 1955
Asian-African conference of Bandung, and it is highlighted in the Chinese Government’s latest White Paper on Foreign Aid: “[w]hen providing foreign assistance, China adheres to the principles of not imposing any political conditions, not interfering in the internal aﬀairs of
the recipient countries and fully respecting their right to independently
choose their own paths and models of development” (State Council,
2014).19
Oﬃcials from China’s Ministry of Commerce, which is formally
responsible for managing the country’s foreign aid program, take this
principle seriously. They informed us during interviews that “the initiative generally comes from the recipient side.”20 More speciﬁcally,
the Chinese aid allocation process begins when the recipient government proposes a project to the Economic and Commercial Counselor’s
oﬃce attached to China’s in-country diplomatic mission.21 This oﬃce
then submits the government’s application—if it meets a minimum viability standard—to the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Foreign Aﬀairs in Beijing. A team of technical experts from the Ministry of
Commerce then travels to the country that requested support to undertake a project and budget feasibility assessment in consultation with
the domestic authorities. Upon their return to Beijing, the technical
team prepares a ﬁnal project proposal for the State Council’s determination. If the State Council authorizes the project, the Ministry of Finance
transfers funds to the Ministry of Commerce and the procurement process begins.22 Notwithstanding these formal project preparation procedures, Dornan and Brant (2014) note that relatively little eﬀort is made
by any agency within the Chinese government to conduct rigorous economic analysis of potential projects and that project appraisal processes
remain weak.
Chinese projects are also diﬀerent from World Bank projects in that
they are typically negotiated directly with the political leaders of recipient countries (AfDB et al., 2011).23 This approach limits opportunities for technocrats in line ministries, opposition politicians, civil society organizations, and journalists to sound the alarm when politicallymotivated projects are proposed (Jansson, 2013), and it creates significant scope for leaders to steer projects towards politically consequential regions (Engelsma et al., 2017). The Chinese Government is almost

15

However, given that the probability of clientelistic voting is lower outside a leader’s home regions, the incentive to broadly distribute particularistic
rewards outside this region should be weaker.
16
Of course, we do not argue that this is the only possible reason why Chinese
aid might be channeled to leaders’ birth regions. At least, four other channels
come to mind: the possibility that African leaders might be economically privileging their home regions in anticipation of returning to these places after
leaving oﬃce; the possibility that they are motivated by parochial altruism; the
possibility that the Chinese government itself is directly or indirectly promoting
its own domestic political culture wherein elected leaders disproportionately
allocate public resources to their home villages (Mu and Zhang, 2014); and the
possibility that Chinese ﬁrms in Africa with close ties to the leaders of African
countries inﬂuence the project identiﬁcation and selection process (Chen and
Orr, 2009; Dornan and Brant, 2014; Zhu, 2015). While these potential motives
are not mutually exclusive, we focus on the electoral motives of political leaders
as it lends itself to empirical scrutiny.
17 Speciﬁcally, OP 10.04 states that “[t]o be acceptable on economic grounds,
a [World Bank-ﬁnanced] project must meet two conditions: (a) the expected
present value of the project’s net beneﬁts must not be negative; and (b) the
expected present value of the project’s net beneﬁts must be higher than or equal
to the expected net present value of mutually exclusive project alternatives.”
18
Authors’ email correspondence with DFA oﬃcials in January 2019.

19
The World Bank’s Articles of Agreement also codify the principle of political non-interference in the aﬀairs of recipient countries. Section 10 of Article IV
makes clear that the organization should make investment decisions based on
economic criteria: “[t]he Bank and its oﬃcers shall not interfere in the political
aﬀairs of any member; nor shall they be inﬂuenced in their decisions by the
political character of the member or members concerned. Only economic considerations shall be relevant to their decisions, and these considerations shall be
weighed impartially in order to achieve the purposes stated in Article I.” However, China and the World Bank put the principle of non-interference into practice in very diﬀerent ways. A case in point is the World Bank’s use and China’s
non-use of cost-beneﬁt analysis for screening, selecting, and siting projects.
20 Authors’ interview in June 2013. Oﬃcials from the Ministry of Health also
told us that they “send medical teams to the areas of the country that are
selected by the recipient government” (authors’ interview in October 2014).
21
Our description of this process relies heavily upon Davies et al. (2008) and
Corkin (2011).
22
There is a diﬀerent procedure for recipient governments seeking a concessional loan worth more than RMB 20 million.
23
The World Bank typically negotiates projects with government technocrats
in the line ministries of recipient countries.

47

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

certainly aware of this fact.24 Bräutigam (2012: 23) notes that“[t]hose
designing China’s aid program see nothing wrong with fulﬁlling a host
president or key minister’s desire to have a fancy Chinese school built
in his or her hometown.”
Sudan provides a useful illustration of how Chinese aid can be
used by host government leaders to increase their odds of remaining
in power. Over the last ﬁfteen years, Sudan has received billions of
dollars of Chinese development ﬁnance. Many of these projects have
been located within the so-called “Hamdi Triangle,” a region in the
Nile River Valley between the cities of Dongola, Sennar, and El Obeid
(in North Kordofan) that is considered to be the heartland of the Arab
Riverine tribes and the political base of the ruling National Conference
Party (NCP) (Roessler, 2013). President Bashir’s hometown of Shendi
lies along the bank of the Nile River and falls squarely within the
Hamdi Triangle (Verhoeven, 2015). This area of the country assumed
special political signiﬁcance after 2005 when the authorities in Khartoum signed a Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) with the Sudan
People’s Liberation Army (SPLA) that called for presidential and legislative elections in 2010 and a referendum on South Sudan’s independence in 2011. In recognition of the domestic political threats posed by
the presidential election and the referendum, Abdel Rahim Hamdi (a
political strategist for the NCP and former Minister of Finance) laid out
a “grand strategy” for domestic political survival at a 2005 NCP conference (Hamdi, 2005). He argued that the ruling party’s electoral fortunes
would hinge on its ability to deliver job opportunities and public services to the core constituents in the area between Dongola, Sennar, and
El Obeid and, therefore, called for concentrated investment in this area.
He also argued that non-Western funds would be necessary to target
this area.25 In the years following the adoption of this strategy, Chinese
development and investment projects focused heavily in these areas and
other pro-NCP constituencies (Roessler, 2013).
Foreign aid from Western donors and multilateral development
agencies can of course also be inﬂuenced by the interests and demands
of host country leaders, and there is some evidence that traditional
sources of aid are vulnerable to political capture and manipulation
(Cohen, 1995; Briggs, 2012, 2014; Jablonski, 2014; Masaki, 2018).
Indeed, Faye and Niehaus (2012) show that Western donors use aid to
help politically aligned recipient governments get reelected. But there
do appear to be fundamental diﬀerences in the way that China and
Western donors operationalize the principle of “country ownership.”
Nissanke and Söderberg (2011: 26) note that “Chinese arrangements
appear to be […] much more ﬂexible than the mechanisms oﬀered
by traditional donors […] [and] [p]roject selection is request-based:
projects are initiated by borrowing countries, dependent on their preference, priority and circumstances.” By comparison, many Western
donors have due diligence standards and procedures in place to ensure

that the process of designing projects and allocating scarce resources
across subnational jurisdictions is guided by economic criteria (Jenkins, 1997; Deininger et al., 1998; Warner, 2010; OECD, 2015).26
3. Data and methods
This section introduces the data and empirical strategy that we use
to test whether the political leaders’ birthplace matters for the allocation of Chinese aid within African countries.
Our sample covers subnational units of 47 African countries over the
2000–2011 period.27 These subnational units are administrative regions
at the ﬁrst and second subnational levels. ADM1 regions correspond to
provinces, states, or governorates, while ADM2 regions are smaller and
typically correspond to counties or districts. The Database of Global
Administrative Areas (GADM) provides shapeﬁles with information on
subnational administrative regions and their boundaries. There are 709
ADM1 regions and 5835 ADM2 regions in the 47 African countries covered in our sample.28
3.1. New georeferenced data on China’s foreign aid activities
We build on the dataset in Strange et al. (2017), who provide
project-level information about Chinese Government-ﬁnanced activities in African countries (see Strange et al., 2014 for methodological
details). These data on Chinese oﬃcial ﬁnancing were assembled using
AidData’s Tracking Underreported Financial Flows (TUFF) method,
which synthesizes and standardizes a large amount of unstructured
information in the public domain. In total, they cover 1650 projects
committed to 49 African countries, amounting to approximately US$
83.3 billion in oﬃcial ﬁnancing over the 2000–2012 period.29 Despite
the short time since the dataset’s public release, it has already been
used in a number of publications at the country level (e.g., Hendrix
and Noland, 2014; Dreher and Fuchs, 2015; Hsiang and Sekar, 2016;
Kilama, 2016; Hernandez, 2017; Li, 2017; Eichenauer et al., 2018)
and—using the data introduced in this paper—also at subnational
scales (e.g., BenYishay et al., 2016; Brazys et al., 2017; Gehring et al.,
2018; Isaksson and Kotsadam, 2018a, 2018b; Martorano et al., 2018;
Marty et al., 2019).
In order to take the data to the subnational level, we georeferenced the project-level data from version 1.1 of AidData’s Chinese Oﬃcial Finance to Africa dataset using the method described in Strandow
et al. (2011).30 This method relies on a double-blind system, where
two coders employ a deﬁned hierarchy of geographic terms and independently assign uniform latitude and longitude coordinates, information about the precision of the data, and standardized names to

26
The World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the European Union, and the U.S. Government’s Millennium Challenge Corporation all use some form of cost-beneﬁt analysis to vet candidate
projects (Warner, 2010: 57).
27
We exclude Western Sahara, a disputed territory, Somalia for the absence of
a central government, and the ﬁve small island states of Cape Verde, Comoros,
Mauritius, São Tomé and Príncipe, and Seychelles. Given potential concerns
about the comprehensiveness of the 2012 data of the 1.1 version of AidData’s
China in Africa dataset, we follow Strange et al. (2017) and exclude 2012.
28
The GADM database includes subnational boundaries only at the ADM1
level for Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Lesotho, Libya, and Swaziland. In our
ADM2-level analysis, we use ADM1 regions for these countries instead. Excluding these countries does not change the results qualitatively. ADM1 and ADM2
regions across Africa are shown in Fig. B.1 in Appendix B.
29
The largest recipients of Chinese oﬃcial ﬁnancing are Ghana, the DRC, and
Ethiopia, with registered ﬂows in the range of US$ 7.9–12.1 billion. Unsurprisingly, the dataset does not contain any development projects in the four African
countries that recognized the Republic of China (Taiwan) rather than the PRC
during our period of study: Burkina Faso, the Gambia, São Tomé and Príncipe,
and Swaziland.
30
We exclude ﬂows coded as non-binding pledges or suspended projects.

24

There are even reasons to believe that the Chinese Government may encourage this type of behavior. DiLorenzo and Cheng (2019) provide empirical evidence that China strategically increases the provision of aid to new leaders
and governments shortly after they come to power. After Maithripala Sirisena
was elected as the President of Sri Lanka, he attended a ceremony to celebrate
the opening of a Chinese Government-ﬁnanced hospital in his home district of
Polonnaruwa and informed the crowd in attendance that “[w]hen the Chinese
ambassador visited my house to ﬁx the date for this ceremony, he said that Chinese President Xi Jinping sent me another gift. […] He has gifted 2 billion yuan
[US$ 295 million] to be utilized for any project [that I] wish” (Reuters, 2018).
25
Speciﬁcally, Hamdi (2005) wrote: “Financial ﬂows […] from [Western]
institutions will be characterized by the following: they will be late; will be
far less than promised; they will be surrounded by rules and bureaucracy. […]
Investment funds will go to areas that are already predetermined in the [CPA];
this is, to the geographical south with its deﬁned borders, Nuba Mountains,
Southern Blue Nile. Moreover, these investment funds will be supervised by
certain Commissions which ensure that they go to the speciﬁed zones only. Due
to these facts, foreign investment will remain out of our hands and will not
beneﬁt the North much. In a sharp contrast to that, [non-Western] investment,
both oﬃcial and private will go to the Geographical North.”
48

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Fig. 1. Value of Chinese aid projects per subnational unit in Africa (total value in million 2009 US$, 2000–11, ADM1).

Assistance (ODA) and Other Oﬃcial Flows (OOF).32 Fig. 1 shows
the allocation of oﬃcial ﬁnancing across ADM1 regions.33 Second,
we restrict our analysis to Chinese “aid” in the strict sense of the
term, i.e., those ﬂows that Strange et al. (2017) identify as being
“ODA-like.”
A caveat related to these two variable deﬁnitions is that 35% of the
projects lack information on their respective ﬁnancial values. Although
this source of measurement bias is likely to be negligible because most
of the missing values correspond to scholarship and technical assistance
activities that typically have low ﬁnancial values, we take two actions
to account for this limitation of the dataset. First, if we know there
are Chinese projects in a particular subnational locality but we have no
information about any of their monetary amounts, we set Aidict to missing.34 Second, we run robustness checks where our dependent variables

each geographic feature of interest. If the locations chosen by the two
coders are not identical, then a senior researcher identiﬁes the source
of discrepancy and assigns the appropriate geocode. This process of
arbitration between two independent coders by a third ensures strict
quality control, minimizing missed or incorrect locations. For projects
with more than one location, we georeferenced all locations.31 Our
application of this geocoding method yielded 1898 project locations
geocoded at the ADM1 level and 1575 project locations at the ADM2
level.
Our dependent variable, Aidict , measures Chinese aid allocated
to region i in country c and year t in constant 2009 US$. But
we distinguish between two deﬁnitions of Aidict . First, we analyze
the allocation of Chinese “aid” in the broadest sense, including all
oﬃcial ﬁnancing activities from China as identiﬁed by Strange et
al. (2017). To the maximum extent possible, Strange et al. (2017)
code Chinese Government-ﬁnanced projects as either “ODA-like” or
“OOF-like” based upon the OECD criteria for Oﬃcial Development

32 In cases when a Chinese Government-ﬁnanced project cannot be clearly categorized as ODA or OOF, Strange et al. (2017) assign it to a residual category
called “Vague (Oﬃcial Finance).” Our measure of Chinese “aid” includes all
oﬃcial ﬁnancing activities, including those categorized as ODA-like, OOF-like,
and Vague (Oﬃcial Finance). In line with the bulk of the aid allocation literature, we do not scale oﬃcial ﬁnance according to population size or level of
development, but control for them on the right-hand side.
33
In addition, Fig. B.2 in Appendix B shows a map with the number of Chinese
aid projects across ADM1 regions.
34
Our results are qualitatively unchanged if we set Aidict to zero in these cases
(see Table E.1 in Appendix E).

31
Because we do not observe ﬁnancial values at the project-location level but
only at the project level, we spread project amounts equally across all locations
identiﬁed in each project.

49

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Fig. 2. Birth regions of eﬀective political leaders in Africa (2000–11, ADM1).

then analyze IDA volumes separately.37

are binary variables that assume values of one if a project has been committed to a subnational region in a given year, and zero otherwise (see
Table E.2 in Appendix E).
We also look at the subnational allocation of aid from the World
Bank, which is one of the largest “traditional” donors in Africa and one
that is known for screening and selecting loan proposals based on strict
project appraisal policies and procedures (as discussed in Section 2). For
this purpose, we rely on a new georeferenced dataset provided by AidData (2015) that consists of all World Bank projects approved between
2000 and 2011.35 The dataset includes 533 projects and 7519 project
locations in Africa worth US$ 43.4 billion (in commitment terms).36
Again, we distinguish between two deﬁnitions of the dependent variable to mimic the approach taken for Chinese aid. We ﬁrst analyze
the total value of World Bank ﬁnancing (transformed to constant 2009
US$), which includes both concessional ﬂows from the International
Development Association (IDA) and non-concessional ﬂows from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), and

3.2. Birth regions of Africa’s political leaders
Our main explanatory variable of interest is a binary variable,
Birthregionict , that is equal to one if the political leader of country c
in year t was born in administrative region i, and zero otherwise. We
apply the deﬁnition of countries’ eﬀective leaders from Goemans et al.’s
(2009) Archigos dataset, updated in Dreher and Yu (2016). In order
to assign latitude and longitude coordinates to the birthplaces of the
political leaders of African countries, we again follow Strandow et al.
(2011).38 We are able to attribute leaders to 76.7% of the country-years
covered at the ADM1 level; the remaining leaders are either foreignborn or we were not able to gather suﬃciently precise information to
place them in ADM1 regions. Fig. 2 shows a map of the birth regions

37
We exclude World Bank projects that are nationwide in scope or allocated to
the central government and therefore cannot be attributed to a speciﬁc region.
In total, approximately 40% of all projects are assigned to a distinguishable
location (Dreher and Lohmann, 2015). Figs. B.3 and B.4 in Appendix B show
maps of the allocation of World Bank aid across African ADM1 regions. The
correlation between Chinese and World Bank aid is positive but low (0.062 for
total amounts and 0.123 for concessional ﬂows).
38
We code their latitude and longitude coordinates using Geonames (see
http://www.geonames.org). We record locations with ﬁve decimal places of
precision. As secondary source we rely on the American National Geospatial
Intelligence Service (NGA) (http://geonames.nga.mil/ggmagaz).

35
Comprehensive geocoded data for “traditional” bilateral donors are not
available for long periods of time or for the entire African continent.
36
See Findley et al. (2011) for a detailed description of an earlier release of
these data.

50

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Table 1
Summary statistics, ADM1, 2000–11.
Variable

Obs.

Mean

Std. Dev.

Min

Max

Chinese total ﬂows (in levels)
Chinese ODA-like ﬂows (in levels)
Chinese project dummy
World Bank total ﬂows (in levels)
World Bank IDA ﬂows (in levels)
Birthregion
Prebirth (2 years)
Postbirth (2 years)
Birthregion Spouse
Light2000 (in levels)
Population2000 (in levels)
Capitalregion
Mines (in levels)
Oilgas
Area (in levels)
Ports
Roaddensity
Executive election next year
Legislative election next year
Executive electoral competitiveness
Legislative electoral competitiveness
Provincial elections

8327
8307
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8327
8318
8327
8327
8327
6041

6.5m
1.6m
0.070
5.71m
4.53m
0.066
0.009
0.08
0.035
1.953
1.1m
0.062
3.511
0.176
40952
0.184
0.090
0.162
0.211
4.699
4.981
0.198

86.8m
29.2m
0.256
30.77m
16.17m
0.248
0.093
0.089
0.184
5.984
1.7m
0.241
12.41
0.381
81130
0.387
0.143
0.369
0.408
1.919
1.663
0.399

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6047
0
0
0
41.56
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

5.2b
1.5b
1
2.06b
297m
1
1
1
1
48.20
21.9m
1
139
1
0.6m
1
1.874
1
1
6
6
1

Notes: Descriptive statistics are based on the estimation sample used in Table 2, column 1. The exception
are the election-related variables, where statistics are based on the estimation samples of Table 4.

of political leaders across the African continent at the ADM1 level. In
total, we observe 117 leaders with 73 changes in the Birthregionict variable over time at the ADM1 level. Appendix A lists all domestic-born
leaders alongside their administrative birth regions.

by a desire for access to natural resources, we compute Minesic , which
is deﬁned as the log of the sum of mineral facilities in each subnational region i according to the Mineral Resource Data System of the
United States Geological Survey (USGS, 2005).41 As a second indicator
of resource wealth, the variable OilGasic takes a value of one if parts of
an oil or gas ﬁeld are within the boundaries of administrative region i
(according to data from Lujala et al., 2007), and zero otherwise. Previous studies of subnational aid allocation suggest that donors favor
areas with good baseline infrastructure conditions (e.g., Marty et al.,
2017), so we also compute the total length of roads per square kilometer (RoadDensityic ) using geographic data from CIESIN (2013) and
construct a binary variable Portic that is equal to one if a port is located
in region i according to data from the World Port Index (NGA, 2011),
and zero otherwise.
Table 1 provides summary statistics at the level of ADM1 regions.
The likelihood of the average African region to receive Chinese aid in
a given year is 7%. The average region receives approximately US$ 6.5
million in Chinese funding per year, of which US$ 1.6 million arrives
in the form of ODA-like ﬂows. An average ADM1 region is the political
leader’s birth region in 6.6% of the years.

3.3. Additional data
We prepare additional variables that are potential determinants of
Chinese aid allocation and might be correlated with our variable of
interest. We include nighttime light intensity from the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA, 2014) as a proxy for economic
activity at the subnational level.39 A main advantage of these data is
the high spatial granularity, which is particularly useful in the African
context where regional GDP estimates are typically poor or unavailable.
The variable Light2000ic corresponds to the log of the average nighttime
light intensity of the pixels in region i of country c in 2000, which is at
the beginning of our sample period.40
We further control for (log) geographical size and (log) population
size of subnational regions. The variable Areaic is directly calculated
from the shapeﬁle of subnational boundaries, while Population2000ic is
based on high-resolution data on the spatial distribution of the world
population in 2000 by the Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN). We add the binary variable Capitalregionic
that takes the value of one if the capital city of country c is located in
region i in order to account for the speciﬁc role played by the country’s capital. To control for the possibility that Chinese aid is motivated

3.4. Empirical strategy
In order to test whether the current political leaders’ birthplaces
matter for the allocation of Chinese aid, we estimate two sets of regressions:
∑
𝛽j Xicj + 𝛾 Birthregionict + 𝜖ict ,
(1)
Aidict = 𝛼ct +

39
NOAA uses satellite measures of light intensity from evenings during the
dark half of the lunar cycle in seasons when the sun sets early. It removes
observations that are likely to be aﬀected by, e.g., cloud coverage, ﬁres or
other ephemeral lights. Henderson et al. (2012) and Hodler and Raschky
(2014a) show that changes in nighttime light intensity are highly correlated
with changes in national and subnational GDP, respectively. Bruederle and
Hodler (2018) show that nighttime light intensity is also a good proxy for local
human development outcomes.
40
We follow Michalopoulos and Papaioannou (2013, 2014) and Hodler and
Raschky (2014a, 2014b) in adding 0.01 to the average nighttime light intensity
before taking its logarithm. Doing so ensures that we do not lose observations
with a reported nighttime light intensity of zero. Using the year 2000 minimizes
the possibility of reverse causality. Results are qualitatively the same when we
use lagged nighttime light intensity instead.

j

Aidict = 𝛼ct + 𝛿ic + 𝛾 Birthregionict + 𝜖ict ,

(2)

j
where Xic represents our time-invariant control variables, 𝛼 ct countryyear-ﬁxed eﬀects, and 𝛿 ic region-ﬁxed eﬀects.

To ease the interpretation of our results, we report results for all
regressions with OLS. This approach comes with the disadvantage that

41

This cross-sectional dataset on historical and current mining facilities
includes mines, plants, mills, and reﬁneries of many mineral commodities such
as coal, iron ore, copper, gold, silver, and zinc. We added one before taking the
logarithm.
51

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

we have to add a value of US$ 1 before taking logarithms in order
to avoid taking the log of zero. This might lead to a signiﬁcant bias
at the ADM2 level in particular, where we have a large number of
zero observations. For comparison, we therefore also estimate our main
regressions with Poisson Pseudo-Maximum Likelihood (PPML). Santos
Silva and Tenreyro (2006) show that PPML outperforms simple OLS and
Tobit approaches with heteroskedasticity and many zero observations
in the data.42
Comparing the models in Equations (1) and (2), the former has two
advantages. First, the omission of region-ﬁxed eﬀects allows us to also
exploit between-region variation, which might be important to identify
the relationship between leaders’ birthplaces and aid absent large variation in the leaders’ birth regions.43 Second, this speciﬁcation allows us
to include variables that vary across regions exclusively. While the focus
of our analysis is on the birth regions of political leaders, the inclusion
of these variables facilitates comparison with the country-level literature on the allocation of aid. A shortcoming of this approach is that a
statistically signiﬁcant eﬀect of these regions on aid might be spurious
and could simply reﬂect the fact that certain regions receive more aid
than others because of variables that we do not control for and that
are unrelated to leaders. Equation (2) precludes such spurious results
by exploiting region-speciﬁc variation over time exclusively. While this
speciﬁcation is the more rigorous one, we lose substantial variation,
which makes identifying the relationship between aid and leaders’ birth
regions more diﬃcult. We also go a step further and control for the last
two years before the political leaders came to power and the ﬁrst two
years after they were out of power as placebo tests. The former is particularly important to rule out the possibility that our ﬁndings are driven
by unobserved country-speciﬁc trends in aid over time. In all allocation
equations, we cluster standard errors by country.44
Some readers might be concerned that the unoﬃcial and opensource nature of the Chinese aid data threatens the reliability of our
empirical tests.45 To the extent that leaders’ birthplaces get better coverage in the sources used in Strange et al. (2017), a positive eﬀect of
Birthregionict on Chinese aid could reﬂect greater coverage rather than
more projects. Moreover, it could be easier to georeference projects in
birth regions of leaders if these regions attract more media coverage.
This would imply that selection into the analysis dataset could be based
on the independent variable of interest and—if true—could lead to an
overestimation of the extent of political capture. This should be particularly likely for small projects as large projects are very visible and
will likely receive some media coverage in non-birth regions as well.
To test whether we are likely to miss small projects outside the political

leaders’ birth regions, we regress (log) average project size on our birth
region variable, controlling for country-year- and region-ﬁxed eﬀects
(see Table E.4 in Appendix E for details). At the ADM1 level, we ﬁnd
that the average project size does not change when a new leader originates from a region. At the smaller ADM2 regions, our results show that
projects in birth regions are larger rather than smaller. Therefore, it is
unlikely that a positive birthplace coeﬃcient in our main regressions
results from the detection of a larger number of small projects or an
increased ability to georeference projects in leaders’ birthplaces but not
elsewhere.46
Appendix D further explores diﬀerences between project locations
that can be precisely mapped to an ADM1 region to those with less
precise information. Out of the 2969 project locations geocoded at
the ADM1 level, 1898 locations (i.e., 64%) can be mapped to ADM1
regions. These project locations receive ﬁnancial ﬂows that are substantially larger (in terms of mean and median size), and more of them
are loans while fewer of them are ODA-like ﬂows. It is less likely that
projects with precise information have reached the commitment stage
but not the implementation stage or completion stage during our period
of study.47 In robustness tests, we investigate whether these observable
diﬀerences inﬂuence our main ﬁndings (see Table E.8 in Appendix E).
We ﬁnd that our main results hold when we exclude (i) projects with
loan amounts above the median, (ii) projects that did reach the implementation or completion stage during our period of study, or (iii) all
projects ﬁnanced via loans.
4. Results
4.1. Main results
We start by presenting our baseline results where we analyze
China’s aid allocation at the level of ADM1 regions (such as provinces).
Columns 1 to 4 of Table 2 show the results from estimations of Equation (1), which includes country-year-ﬁxed eﬀects but not region-ﬁxed
eﬀects. Columns 1 and 2 consider total ﬂows of Chinese oﬃcial ﬁnancing, estimated with OLS and PPML, respectively. In Columns 3 and
4, we replicate the analysis but focus on a stricter deﬁnition of Chinese aid—ODA-like ﬂows rather than all forms of oﬃcial ﬁnancing.
The maximum number of observations is 8375 from 709 ADM1 regions
in 47 countries. However, not all of these observations contribute to
the identiﬁcation of the birth-region eﬀect. In the regressions without
region-ﬁxed eﬀects for total aid, 4886 observations are from countryyears with no variation in our dependent variable, so that coeﬃcients
are identiﬁed based on variation from the remaining 3441 observations (from 43 countries). When we include ﬁxed eﬀects for regions
in addition, this number is further reduced to 1991 observations (from
43 countries).
Starting with the control variables, we ﬁnd few consistent results
across models and type of ﬁnancing. As one exception, our results show
that regions containing the country’s capital receive signiﬁcantly more
funding. Funding amounts increase with a region’s level of economic

42
While initially introduced into the trade literature, PPML becomes more
widely used in the empirical aid literature as well (e.g., Fuchs and Vadlamannati, 2013; Acht et al., 2015; Davies and Klasen, 2019). We use the user-written
Stata command “poi2hdfe” to estimate a Poisson regression model with high
dimensional ﬁxed eﬀects (Guimaraes and Portugal, 2010; Figueiredo et al.,
2015).
43
Leader changes are infrequent. In our sample, we observe 73 (82) changes
in Birthregion at the ADM1 (ADM2) level.
44
Our results do not depend on how we cluster standard errors. Table E.3
in Appendix E shows that clustering for periods each leader is in power
(where country-years with power transitions or without domestic-born leaders
receive a separate country-speciﬁc leader ID), ADM1 regions or—using two-way
clustering—at the country and year, ADM1 and year, or ADM1 and country-year
level, does not change our conclusions.
45
Kilby (2017) investigates whether and to what extent the TUFF methodology may be subject to detection bias at the country level and points to the
importance of English as an oﬃcial language. Factors that do not vary over
time within regions or are constant across regions in any one year are captured
by our ﬁxed eﬀects. Muchapondwa et al. (2016) ﬁnd a high level of correspondence between the Chinese development project data collected through
the TUFF methodology and data collected through the systematic implementation of ﬁeld-based data collection protocols by local enumerators in Uganda
and South Africa.

46
Furthermore, in the working-paper version of this article (Dreher et al.,
2016), we test whether aid is less eﬀective when it is committed to a region
when it is the leader’s birth region compared to aid committed at other times.
To the extent that aid reporting rather than the volume of aid increases in
the leaders’ birth regions, the aid “committed” to birth regions should be less
eﬀective in promoting development (as larger amounts of aid would not ﬂow to
these regions but would merely be more likely to be reported there). Since this
is not what we ﬁnd, this further increases our conﬁdence that the open-source
nature of the Chinese aid data does not threaten our identiﬁcation strategy. We
further explore this issue in Dreher et al. (2019).
47
A typical project location that cannot be mapped to an ADM1 region would
be an unrestricted grant (e.g., general budget support to the central government).

52

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Table 2
Birth regions and China’s aid I, ADM1, 2000–11.

Birthregion
Light2000 (in logs)
Population2000 (in logs)
Capitalregion
Mines (in logs)
Oilgas
Area (in logs)
Ports
Roaddensity
Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
Total OLS

(2)
Total PPML

(3)
ODA OLS

(4)
ODA PPML

(5)
Total OLS

(6)
Total PPML

(7)
ODA OLS

(8)
ODA PPML

0.688∗∗
(0.324)
0.293∗∗
(0.119)
0.087
(0.094)
4.164∗∗∗
(0.544)
0.117∗
(0.067)
0.070
(0.149)
0.234∗∗
(0.091)
−0.068
(0.193)
1.145
(1.198)
Yes
No
0.40
8327
709

0.969∗∗∗
(0.359)
0.218
(0.158)
0.389∗
(0.227)
1.558∗∗∗
(0.431)
0.186∗
(0.106)
0.326
(0.438)
0.367
(0.233)
−0.256
(0.684)
1.406
(2.166)
Yes
No

0.283
(0.209)
0.242∗
(0.125)
0.014
(0.089)
2.837∗∗∗
(0.459)
0.003
(0.041)
0.077
(0.133)
0.183∗∗
(0.080)
−0.155
(0.150)
1.181
(1.080)
Yes
No
0.35
8375
709

0.921
(0.564)
−0.117
(0.444)
0.367∗
(0.210)
2.988∗∗∗
(1.023)
0.224
(0.179)
0.036
(0.807)
−0.420
(0.497)
−1.797∗
(1.044)
4.137∗
(2.360)
Yes
No

1.082∗∗
(0.423)

0.267∗
(0.142)

0.569∗∗
(0.252)

2.257∗∗∗
(0.328)

Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes
0.28
8375
709

Yes
Yes

8327
709

8375
709

8327
709

8375
709

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs) in columns 1 and 5, Chinese total ﬂows (in levels) in columns 2 and 6, Chinese ODA-like
ﬂows (in logs) in columns 3 and 7, and Chinese ODA-like ﬂows (in levels) in columns 4 and 8. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country
∗∗∗
∗
level.
(∗∗ , ): signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

aid committed to the political leaders’ birth regions is 164% larger.50
Analyzing ODA-like ﬂows only in columns 3 and 4, the results for our
main variable of interest are weaker than for total oﬃcial ﬁnancing
ﬂows. The coeﬃcient of Birthregionict , while still positive, is no longer
statistically signiﬁcant at conventional levels in the OLS regression and
marginally insigniﬁcant in the PPML regression (p-value: 0.103).
In columns 5 to 8, we report our regressions from Equation (2).
That is, we replace our time-invariant control variables with regionﬁxed eﬀects. Controlling for both country-year- and region-ﬁxed eﬀects
absorbs a large share of the variation in our variable of interest, so this
approach represents the more conservative speciﬁcation. Controlling
for this set of ﬁxed eﬀects makes the existence of a spurious relationship between birthplace and aid ﬂows less likely. At the same time,
the region-ﬁxed eﬀects imply that the estimates in columns 5 to 8 can
only be based on the 29 African countries with at least one change
in the political leaders’ birth region during our sample period. That
is, these estimates are neither based on the 17 countries where the
same leaders hold power throughout our sample period (see Table A.1
in Appendix A), nor on the Democratic Republic of the Congo where
Laurent-Désiré Kabila was followed by his son Joseph Kabila who
was born in the same ADM1 region. It is therefore remarkable that
the results tend to become stronger with the inclusion of region-ﬁxed
eﬀects. The coeﬃcient estimate in column 5 suggests that total oﬃcial
ﬁnancing ﬂows increase by approximately 195% when ADM1 regions
become the political leader’s birth region (though the coeﬃcient esti-

development (proxied by nighttime light intensity) in our OLS regressions (at least at the 10% level of statistical signiﬁcance), but become
insigniﬁcant when we estimate regressions with PPML. Therefore, while
more Chinese aid is allocated to poorer countries (Dreher and Fuchs,
2015), our results show that, if anything, poorer regions within countries (i.e., regions with less nighttime light intensity, after controlling
for regional population size) receive less support from China. According
to the OLS results, geographically larger regions receive signiﬁcantly
more funding, while countries with larger populations receive more
funding according to the PPML regressions. Road density and ports are
not related to the receipt of Chinese funding in our OLS regressions
(but reach statistical signiﬁcance for ODA-like ﬂows when estimated
with PPML). Also, contrary to conventional wisdom, the availability of
oil and gas does not seem to correlate with Chinese funding at the subnational level, while ADM1 regions with mines do receive signiﬁcantly
more Chinese funding (at the 10% level). However, this latter eﬀect
disappears when we restrict the sample to ODA-like ﬂows—that is, aid
in the strict sense (see columns 3 and 4). This pattern is in line with
the ﬁndings of Dreher et al. (2018), who report that China’s commercial motives matter more for less concessional ﬂows than for ODA-like
ﬂows at the country level.
Turning to our primary variable of interest, the results in columns
1 and 2 show that larger amounts of Chinese funding go to the birth
regions of a country’s political leader, at the 5% and 1% levels of signiﬁcance.48 The coeﬃcient of the OLS regression implies an increase in
total ﬁnancial ﬂows of almost 100% to ADM1 regions containing the
political leader’s birthplace.49 The quantitative size of the eﬀect is even
larger according to the PPML result, which suggests that the amount of

48
Including Birthregionict to a speciﬁcation with only the control variables used
in column 1 increases the adjusted R-squared from 0.352 to 0.353. While having
a statistically signiﬁcant and quantitatively substantive eﬀect, the explanatory
power of leader birth regions is thus rather low. The increase of the adjusted
R-squared is comparable in size to including Population2000ic or Roaddensityic
in the baseline speciﬁcation.
49
Fig. C.1 in Appendix C shows the partial leverage plot corresponding to
column 1. As can be seen, the result is not driven by obvious outliers.

50
Alternatively, using a project dummy as dependent variable, the coeﬃcient
of Birthregionict is positive and statistically signiﬁcant at the 10% level (see
Table E.2 in Appendix E). We ﬁnd that the likelihood of a birth region to receive
Chinese aid is 3.2% higher, which is sizable given the sample mean of 9%. This
highlights that our main ﬁnding cannot be driven by individual, large-scale
projects (“mega projects”).

53

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Table 3
Birth regions and China’s aid II, ADM1, 2000–11.

Birthregion
Prebirth (2 years)
Postbirth (2 years)

(1)
Total OLS

(2)
Total PPML

(3)
ODA OLS

(4)
ODA PPML

(5)
Total OLS

(6)
Total PPML

(7)
ODA OLS

(8)
ODA PPML

1.169∗∗
(0.470)
−0.177
(0.463)
0.553
(0.413)

1.859∗∗
(0.829)
0.883
(0.852)
1.074
(0.827)

0.636∗∗
(0.295)
−0.406
(0.409)
0.682
(0.472)

1.032∗∗∗
(0.342)
−1.983
(1.437)
−0.635
(1.450)

0.992∗∗
(0.415)

0.277∗∗
(0.120)

0.495∗
(0.266)

2.661∗∗∗
(0.418)

1.020∗
(0.606)
Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

0.628∗∗∗
(0.111)
Yes
Yes

0.774
(0.500)
Yes
Yes
0.28
8375
709

1.909∗∗∗
(0.157)
Yes
Yes

Birthregion Spouse
Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions
Birthregion = Prebirth

Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709
0.018

Yes
Yes
8327
709
0.204

Yes
Yes
0.28
8375
709
0.011

Yes
Yes
8375
709
0.028

8327
709

8375
709

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs) in columns 1 and 5, Chinese total ﬂows (in levels) in columns 2 and 6, Chinese ODA-like
ﬂows (in logs) in columns 3 and 7, and Chinese ODA-like ﬂows (in levels) in columns 4 and 8. The last row reports the p-value of a test on whether the
∗∗∗
∗
coeﬃcient of Birthregion equals the coeﬃcient of Prebirth. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level.
(∗∗ , ): signiﬁcant at the
1% (5%, 10%) level.

mated with PPML drops in size compared to column 2).51 ODA-like
ﬂows increase by slightly more than 75%, at the 5% level of signiﬁcance (column 7) and show a larger and highly signiﬁcant coeﬃcient
when estimated with PPML (column 8). In summary, the weight of the
evidence across these diﬀerent speciﬁcations suggests that the political
interests of African leaders strongly shape the subnational allocation of
Chinese aid.
Next, we test whether this bias reﬂects a catch-up eﬀect of poorer
regions that become the leader’s birth region, which—as one might
argue—could be desirable from a development perspective.52 In order
to do so, we run regressions where we replace initial nighttime light
with the (logged) level of nighttime light in the previous year and
add its interaction with Birthregionict . If more Chinese aid was indeed
directed to poorer areas to help them converge with other parts of
the country, we would expect to observe a negative coeﬃcient on the
interaction term, i.e., a stronger eﬀect in poorer regions that become
birth regions. However, we ﬁnd the opposite to be true as the eﬀect
of Birthregionict is stronger rather than weaker in richer regions (see
column 10 of Table E.5 in Appendix E).53
In a next step, we include the binary indicators Prebirthict and
Postbirthict to our speciﬁcations with country-year- and region-ﬁxed

eﬀects. Prebirthict is equal to one in the last two years before a region
becomes the birth region of the (new) political leader, while Postbirthict
is equal to one in the ﬁrst two years in which a region is no longer the
birth region of the (old) political leader. A statistically signiﬁcant coefﬁcient on Prebirthict would imply that the political leaders’ birth regions
received more Chinese funding before political leaders assumed power,
which would cast doubt on our interpretation that these regions receive
more Chinese funding because political leaders favor them. By contrast,
a statistically signiﬁcant coeﬃcient on Postbirthict would not necessarily invalidate a causal interpretation. It might well be that part of the
funding pledged for a birth region is formally committed right after the
leader left oﬃce.
As Table 3 shows, neither Prebirthict nor Postbirthict are statistically signiﬁcant in any of the speciﬁcations (and Prebirthict even has
a negative coeﬃcient in three of the four regressions). We also test
whether the coeﬃcient of Prebirthict is signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from those
of Birthregionict (rather than being signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from zero).
With the exception of our PPML regression for total ﬂows shown in
column 2, the coeﬃcients for total ﬂows and ODA-like ﬂows are statistically diﬀerent between pre-birth regions and birth regions (see pvalues in the last row of Table 3). This ﬁnding provides remarkably
strong support for our interpretation that the political leader’s birth
region registers a causal eﬀect on the receipt of Chinese aid.54
To provide further evidence for this interpretation, we focus on the
birth regions of the spouses of the political leaders. The underlying
idea is that it would be unlikely that the birth region of a leader’s
spouse would get more Chinese aid during her husbands’ tenure for
some region-speciﬁc time-varying characteristics other than her husband having the power to play favorites. We georeferenced the birth
regions of the spouses of the political leaders in our sample (where
suﬃcient information was available) and added the resulting binary
indicator of the spouses’ birth regions to our regression. In cases of a
polygamous leader, the spouse that assumes representative functions is

51
Fig. C.2 in Appendix C shows the partial leverage plot corresponding to column 5. Again, the result is not driven by obvious outliers. To make sure that this
ﬁnding is not driven by single countries or years, we replicated this regression
excluding each time one of the countries or years in our sample. Tables E.9 and
E.10 in Appendix E show that our main ﬁnding is robust. Moreover, Table E.11
in Appendix E shows that we obtain similar ﬁndings when replacing aid with
per-capita aid as dependent variable (and remove population from the set of
control variables).
52
On this point, see footnote 1.
53
Table E.5 in Appendix E also investigates the potential heterogeneity of
these eﬀects in other dimensions. There is no evidence that the eﬀect of birth
regions diﬀers systematically with the tenure of the political leader, the quality
of political institutions (as measured by the Polity Score), years of schooling,
perceived corruption, quality of the bureaucracy, the country’s natural resource
endowment, or voting patterns in the United Nations General Assembly. In addition, the birth region eﬀect is not restricted to a small number of sectors but
represents a broader pattern. Table E.6 in Appendix E applies OECD-DAC definitions to categorize Chinese projects into “Social Infrastructure & Services,”
“Economic Infrastructure & Services” and “Production Sectors,” and run separate regressions for each category. The coeﬃcient estimates suggest sizable
birth-region eﬀects for each of these three categories, but the eﬀect is not statistically signiﬁcant at the 10% level for “Economic Infrastructure & Services.”
One potential explanation is that geographic features make roads, railways and
other types of economic infrastructure less vulnerable to political capture.

54
We further explore the relevance of pre-birth and post-birth regions by
deﬁning Prebirth (1st year) and Postbirth (1st year) for the one year immediately
before and after a leader is in power (rather than two years). As can be seen
from Table E.7 in Appendix E, Prebirth (1st year) is insigniﬁcant in all regressions. This again supports the causal interpretation of our main ﬁndings. The
signiﬁcant eﬀect of Postbirth (1st year) in two speciﬁcations most likely reﬂects
delayed commitments of aid that is pledged during the leaders’ tenure. Adding
a further lag, Postbirth (2nd year), results in insigniﬁcant (and negative) coeﬃcients, while our main results are hardly aﬀected by its inclusion.

54

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Table 4
Birth regions, elections and China’s aid, ADM1, 2000–11.

Birthregion
∗

Executive election next year

∗

Legislative election next year

∗

Executive electoral competitiveness

∗

Legislative electoral competitiveness

∗

Provincial elections

Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
Total OLS

(2)
Total OLS

(3)
Total OLS

(4)
Total OLS

(5)
Total OLS

0.848∗
(0.442)
1.311∗
(0.741)

0.984∗∗
(0.439)

−1.108

0.130
(1.403)

−0.278

(0.681)

(0.581)

0.458
(0.641)
0.441∗∗∗
(0.135)
0.176
(0.250)

Yes
Yes
0.30
8318
709

Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

2.767∗∗
(1.022)
Yes
Yes
0.28
6041
517

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs). Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level.
∗
(∗∗ , ): signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

∗∗∗

Table 5
Birth regions and China’s aid, ADM2, 2000–11.

Birthregion (same ADM2)

(1)
Total OLS

(2)
Total PPML

(3)
ODA OLS

(4)
ODA PPML

(5)
Total OLS

(6)
Total PPML

(7)
ODA OLS

(8)
ODA PPML

0.277
(0.271)

1.510∗∗∗
(0.095)

0.281
(0.248)

3.511∗∗∗
(1.162)

Yes
Yes
0.10
69817
5835

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes
0.07
69880
5835

Yes
Yes

0.284
(0.271)
0.086∗∗
(0.042)
Yes
Yes
0.10
69817
5835
0.473

1.467∗∗∗
(0.065)
−0.426
(1.204)
Yes
Yes

0.284
(0.248)
0.031
(0.021)
Yes
Yes
0.07
69880
5835
0.321

3.623∗∗∗
(1.179)
2.595∗∗
(1.274)
Yes
Yes

Birthregion (other in ADM1)
Country-year FE
ADM2 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions
Birthregion (same) = Birthregion (other)

69817
5835

69880
5835

69817
5835
0.106

69880
5835
0.558

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs) in columns 1 and 5, Chinese total ﬂows (in levels) in columns 2 and 6, Chinese ODA-like ﬂows
(in logs) in columns 3 and 7, and Chinese ODA-like ﬂows (in levels) in columns 4 and 8. The last row reports the p-value of a test on whether the coeﬃcient
∗∗∗
∗
of Birthregion (same ADM2) equals the coeﬃcient of Birthregion (other in ADM1). Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level.
(∗∗ , ):
signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

coded as the “ﬁrst spouse.”55 As can be seen from columns 5 to 8 in
Table 3, we obtain similar results for spouses as for the political leaders
themselves, with signiﬁcant coeﬃcients for total oﬃcial ﬁnancing ﬂows
and—in the PPML model—ODA-like ﬂows. We interpret this similarity
as further evidence that political leaders direct Chinese aid to their and
their spouses’ birth regions.56

Beck et al. (2001) and add interaction terms between Birthregionict and
these variables to Equation (2).57 Table 4 presents our OLS estimates.
The electoral variable used in column 1 is a binary variable indicating whether a national executive election takes places in the next year.
Most of the countries in our sample have electoral systems that focus on
a strong president, so that we expect the leader to be particularly interested in providing particularistic rewards in the form of Chinese aid
projects prior to executive elections.58 The regression results show that
the amount of Chinese aid indeed increases signiﬁcantly and substantially prior to executive elections. In column 2 we use a binary variable
for national legislative (rather than executive) elections. The coeﬃcient
of the interaction is considerably lower and not statistically signiﬁcant
at conventional levels. In columns 3 and 4, we use indices measuring the
electoral competitiveness of executive and legislative elections, respectively. These indices are based on both electoral rules and electoral
outcomes. For the ease of interpretation, we rescale these indices such
that they range from 0 to 6, with higher values indicating greater competitiveness. Column 3 shows that more Chinese aid is channeled to
the leaders’ birth regions, at the 1% level of signiﬁcance, if executive

4.2. The role of elections
The results so far show that African leaders are successful in ensuring that their birth regions receive more Chinese aid than other regions.
This ﬁnding is consistent with the clientelistic logic of political survival
in Africa discussed in Section 2. This logic implies that the bias towards
the political leaders’ birth regions should become more pronounced in
the run up to an executive election. We therefore use various measures of electoral pressure from the Database of Political Institutions by

55
Typically, this spouse is the person who the leader is most often seen with
and–in the case of a male leader–this person is called the “ﬁrst lady.” The correlation between the binary variables for the political leader’s ADM1 birth region
and their spouse’s ADM1 birth region is 0.186.
56
There could be diﬀerent motives for why political leaders aim at attracting
Chinese aid to their spouses’ birth regions. First, they may extend their clientelistic policies aimed at political survival onto these regions. Second, they may
be motivated by parochial altruism. Of course, the two motives are not mutually
exclusive.

57
The country-year-ﬁxed eﬀects in Equation (2) absorb possible direct eﬀects
of these electoral variables.
58
As can be seen from Table 1, 16.2% of region-year pairs face elections in
the upcoming year.

55

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Fig. 3. Maps of Chinese and World Bank aid allocation and leader birth regions.
Notes: Comparison of the subnational allocation of total (2000-2011) Chinese aid (upper maps) and World Bank aid (lower map) from the following three countries:
Namibia (left), South Africa (center), and Liberia (right). The light grey lines indicate ADM2 boundaries while the bold, black lines indicate ADM1 boundaries. The
house symbol indicate the political leaders’ ADM2 birth regions. Darker colors indicate higher total aid commitments to the respective ADM2 region.

elections are more competitive.59 In column 4, we ﬁnd no comparable
results for the competitiveness of legislative elections.
We would ideally like to also test the eﬀect of regional elections. In addition to channeling Chinese aid to areas that advance
their own electoral goals, one might expect national political leaders to use aid to support political allies in their home regions. We
are however not aware of data on the timing of sub-national elections for a large sample of African countries and years. We therefore test whether the existence of elections at the ADM1 level changes
the amount of Chinese aid that is committed to the leaders’ birth
regions. To do so, we interact Birthregionict with a binary indicator
for the existence of provincial elections. Using the “state” variable
from Beck et al. (2001), we construct a measure that takes a value

of one if either the executive or legislature are elected at the ADM1
level, and zero otherwise. As can be seen in column 5, there is indeed
a diﬀerential birth-region eﬀect between those country-years where
provincial elections exist and those where provincial elections do not
exist.
In summary, the evidence presented in Table 4 suggests that the
electoral motivations of political leaders can explain why their home
regions disproportionately beneﬁt from the receipt of Chinese aid. This
ﬁnding is consistent with the clientelistic logic of political survival in
Africa.

4.3. Birth provinces versus birth districts
We also argued in Section 2 that African leaders might have incentives to broadly distribute aid across diﬀerent districts within their
home province rather than narrowly targeting just their home district.

59

We ﬁnd no evidence that the birth region-eﬀect of upcoming elections
becomes stronger at times when competitiveness is higher.
56

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Table 6
Birth regions and World Bank aid, ADM1 & ADM2, 2000–11.
(1)
ADM1 Total OLS

(2)
ADM1 Total PPML

(3)
ADM1 IDA OLS

(4)
ADM1 IDA PPML

(5)
ADM2 Total OLS

(6)
ADM2 Total PPML

(7)
ADM2 IDA OLS

(8)
ADM2 IDA PPML

Birthregion

−0.127

−0.209

−0.061

−0.182

Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
ADM2 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(0.156)
Yes
Yes
No

(0.176)
Yes
Yes
No
0.42
8508
709

(0.157)
Yes
Yes
No

0.114
(0.448)
Yes
No
Yes
0.24
70020
5835

−0.005

(0.181)
Yes
Yes
No
0.41
8508
709

0.169
(0.444)
Yes
No
Yes
0.25
70020
5835

0.129
(0.317)
Yes
No
Yes

8508
709

8508
709

(0.314)
Yes
No
Yes
70020
5835

70020
5835

Notes: The dependent variable is World Bank total ﬂows (in logs) in columns 1 and 5, World Bank total ﬂows (in levels) in columns 2 and 6, World Bank IDA
∗∗∗
ﬂows (in logs) in columns 3 and 7, and World Bank IDA ﬂows (in levels) in columns 4 and 8. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level.
∗
(∗∗ , ): signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

Table 5 turns to ADM2 regions such as districts rather than ADM1
regions such as provinces, and focuses on the results from our regressions of Equation (2), which now include ADM2 region-ﬁxed eﬀects. In
this table, Birthregionict is set equal to one only for the ADM2 regions
where the political leaders were born. Columns 1 and 2 focus on total
amounts, estimated with OLS and PPML respectively; columns 3 and
4 turn to ODA-like ﬂows instead. As can be seen, the results depend
substantially on how we estimate regressions. While the coeﬃcient of
Birthregionict is always positive, it is not signiﬁcant at conventional levels in OLS regressions. It is signiﬁcant at the 1% level when we use
PPML instead. Compared to the ADM1 level of analysis, the number
of zero observations is much larger here, so adding a value of one
before taking logs and estimating with OLS becomes more consequential. We take these results as tentative evidence that the eﬀect of the
political leaders’ birth regions on Chinese aid applies at the ADM2 level
too.
Columns 5–8 further address the question of targeting and include
a binary indicator that is set to one for all ADM2 regions nested within
a political leader’s ADM1 birth region, but zero for the ADM2 region in
which the leader was born. This indicator has a positive and statistically
signiﬁcant eﬀect in two of these four speciﬁcations. The comparison of
the two coeﬃcients within speciﬁcations (i.e., within each regression of
columns 5–8) also merits attention. In each speciﬁcation, the point estimates suggest that the eﬀect tends to be stronger in the political leader’s
birth district than in the other districts within the same province. However, since these diﬀerences are not statistically signiﬁcant at conventional levels (with a p-value of 0.106 in column 6 and higher p-values
in other columns), we conclude that there is no strong evidence that
Chinese aid beneﬁts the birth districts (ADM2 birth regions) of politi-

cal leaders more than other districts within the birth provinces (ADM1
birth regions) of political leaders.
The maps in the upper panel of Fig. 3 provide graphical illustrations of this empirical pattern. Maps a, c and e focus on areas
in Namibia, South Africa and Liberia, respectively. In Namibia and
South Africa, some of the ADM2 regions nested within the political
leader’s ADM1 birth region received Chinese aid, while the actual
ADM2 region where the leader was born did not receive any Chinese
aid. In contrast, the leader’s ADM2 birth region in Liberia was the only
ADM2 region in the corresponding ADM1 region that received Chinese
aid.
Overall, our results suggest that Chinese aid is broadly distributed
across diﬀerent districts within the African leaders’ home provinces.
The clientelistic logic of political survival in Africa suggests that the
leaders may do so in order to maximize political support (and voter
turnout) in these stronghold areas.
4.4. Comparison with World Bank aid
Finally, we turn to the allocation of World Bank funding to test
whether ﬁnancial support from a donor with strict project appraisal
policies and procedures can be politically manipulated to the same
extent as ﬁnancial support from China, with its strong emphasis on
political non-interference and its lack of such procedures.
In Table 6 we again focus on total oﬃcial ﬁnancing and ODA-like
ﬂows. Total ﬂows are commitments made through either the IBRD or
IDA windows of the World Bank; IDA ﬂows include only grants and
highly concessional loans and thus mirror our ODA-like regressions for
China in previous tables. Columns 1 to 4 show results for ADM1 regions,

Table 7
Birth regions, elections and World Bank aid, ADM1, 2000–11.

Birthregion
∗

Executive election next year

∗

Legislative election next year

∗

Executive electoral competitiveness

∗

Legislative electoral competitiveness

∗

Provincial elections

(1)
Total OLS

(2)
Total OLS

(3)
Total OLS

(4)
Total OLS

(5)
Total OLS

−0.118

−0.109

−0.319

−0.249

−0.312

(0.188)
−0.070
(0.263)

(0.191)

(0.253)

(0.278)

(0.311)

−0.091
(0.226)

Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

0.039
(0.054)
0.023
(0.052)

Yes
Yes
0.41
8499
709

Yes
Yes
0.41
8508
709

Yes
Yes
0.41
8508
709

Yes
Yes
0.41
8508
709

0.588
(0.469)
Yes
Yes
0.40
6169
517

Notes: The dependent variable is World Bank total ﬂows (in logs). Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level.
∗∗∗
∗
(∗∗ , ): signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.
57

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

and columns 5 to 8 for ADM2 regions.60 We ﬁnd no evidence that ADM1
or ADM2 regions get more World Bank funding in years when they are
the current political leader’s birth region than in other years.
The maps in Fig. 3 illustrate how the subnational allocation of Chinese aid (upper panel) and World Bank aid (lower panel) diﬀers in
three countries: Namibia, South Africa, and Liberia. In Namibia and
South Africa, the ADM1 regions that contain the leaders’ ADM2 birth
regions received Chinese aid (maps a and c), but no World Bank aid
(maps b and d). In Liberia, the leader’s ADM2 birth region directly beneﬁted from Chinese aid, even though Chinese aid was relatively sparsely
allocated across ADM2 regions in the southeastern part of the country.
By contrast, World Bank aid was more broadly distributed across the
ADM2 regions in the area, and the leader’s ADM2 birth region did not
receive any World Bank aid.
In Table 7 we focus on ADM1 regions and include interaction terms
between Birthregionict and variables that measure the timing and competitiveness of national elections or the existence of regional elections.
None of these interaction terms are statistically signiﬁcant. Hence, it
seems that African leaders cannot use funding from the World Bank for
patronage politics in the same way they can use Chinese funding.61

the scope of this study to examine the consequences of spatial inequalities that are reinforced by China. However, the fact that Chinese development projects target politically privileged regions necessarily means
that politically marginalized regions beneﬁt less from such projects.
Future research should therefore assess whether and to what extent Chinese development ﬁnance indirectly increases the probability of social
unrest, state repression, or violent conﬂict.62
Finally, our paper compares the subnational allocation of Chinese
and World Bank development ﬁnance. The World Bank is a useful
benchmark institution because, during our period of study, it used costbeneﬁt analysis to vet prospective projects and minimize the risk of
political capture. China did not have a comparable institutional safeguard in place during our period of study. Therefore, we use subnational geocoded Chinese project data and World Bank project data to
explore whether donors with widely divergent project appraisal systems
are diﬀerentially vulnerable to political capture. We do not ﬁnd any evidence that World Bank projects favor the home regions of political leaders. Nor do we ﬁnd evidence that World Bank projects favor the home
regions of political leaders in the run up to (competitive) executive elections. This empirical pattern is consistent with the argument that, when
governments propose projects to the World Bank that are (implicitly)
based upon political site selection criteria, there is a higher probability of detection and a lower probability of project approval. However,
additional research—covering a wider set of donors with more diverse
project appraisal systems—will be necessary to pinpoint the speciﬁc
rules and procedures on the donor side that prevent resources from
being politically misused.

5. Conclusions
China often seeks to diﬀerentiate itself from Western donors by arguing that its aid is demand-driven and thus more responsive to the needs
of recipient countries. Others credit China for providing African governments with more “ownership” and “policy space” (e.g., Bräutigam,
2011; Kragelund, 2011; Reisen and Stijns, 2011). However, it is unclear
who Beijing expects to beneﬁt from the system it has put in place for
selecting and siting aid projects. “Recipient need” could refer to the
needs of the general population or to governing elites and their clients,
but the interests of these groups are not necessarily aligned.
In order to analyze Chinese aid allocation across subnational localities, we introduce a new georeferenced dataset on oﬃcially-ﬁnanced
Chinese development projects across Africa over the 2000–2012 period.
Our results highlight the potential development risks of an “ondemand” approach: controlling for indicators of recipient need and
various ﬁxed eﬀects, more Chinese development ﬁnance is located in
the birth regions of African leaders. When granted access to a highly
discretionary source of aid, African leaders play favorites by allocating substantial additional resources to their home regions. This ﬁnding
is robust when we restrict aid to those ﬂows that comply with OECD
deﬁnitions of oﬃcial development assistance or use a binary outcome
variable rather than aid amounts.
We also recover evidence that this birth-region eﬀect is signiﬁcantly
larger in the years immediately preceding executive elections and when
competitiveness of executive elections is high. This empirical pattern is
consistent with the notion that African leaders who face electoral competition are particularly keen on using Chinese aid to deliver clientelistic rewards to their core constituents.
In the working-paper version of this article (Dreher et al., 2016)
and follow-up work (Dreher et al., 2019), we provide suggestive evidence that Chinese “aid” does improve local economic development
outcomes—inside and outside of the birth regions of political leaders.
In this regard, our results call attention to the fact that Chinese funding will have longer-term, distributional eﬀects on the ground that are
not yet fully appreciated. Chinese-funded projects seem to increase economic growth at subnational scales, but these beneﬁts accrue disproportionately to the birth regions of political leaders, which are already
wealthier than other regions (Hodler and Raschky, 2014a). It is beyond

Acknowledgements
We thank the editor (Patrick Francois), two anonymous referees, Kurt Annen, Sarah Bermeo, Sarah Bush, Marta Curto-Grau, Martin Gassebner, Ryan Jablonski, Andreas Kotsadam, Gregory Lévieuge,
Jamus Lim, Yannick Lucotte, Takaaki Masaki, Ibrahim Okumu, Duncan Snidal, Heiwai Tang, Huang Yi, Ekkart Zimmermann, Zhao Zhejin,
participants of many conferences, and seminar audiences at many universities for helpful comments (see Appendix G for details).
We also thank Humanity United and the Hewlett Foundation for
the generous funding that made this research possible. Axel Dreher
and Andreas Fuchs are grateful for generous support from the German
Research Foundation (DFG) in the framework of the project “The Economics of Emerging Donors in Development Cooperation” at Heidelberg University (DR 640/5-1 and FU 997/1-1). Roland Hodler and Paul
Raschky are grateful for generous support from the Australian Research
Council (ARC DP150100061).
Evelyn Hytopoulos, Scott Stewart, Charles Perla, Harsh Desai, Daniel
Lantz, Lauren Su, Catherine Crowley, Faith Savaino, Melanie Gilbert,
Torey Beth Jackson, Tiﬀanie Choi, Rebecca Thorpe, Darice Xue, Jiaorui
Jiang, Junrong Zhu, Ze Fu, Zach Baxter, Graeme Cranston Cuebas,
Xiao Liu, Emily Qiu, Hanyang Xu, Dylan Kolhoﬀ, Grace Perkins, Yue
Zhang, Rohan Desai, Will Nelson, Ryan Septon, Elizabeth Saccoccia,
Rachel Benavides, Dominic Sanzotta, Michael Hathaway, Warren Kirkwood, Connor Kennedy, Laura Preszler, Andrea Soleta, Sara Gomez,
Tom Westover, Ann Rogers, Nate Tanner, Rebecca Schectman, Matt
Westover, Sara Rock, Jordan Fox, Emily Tanner, Rachel Kellogg, Austin
Trotta, Isabel Docampo, Lu Sevier, Joseph Dobbels, Julia Varoutsos,
Steven Livingston, Victor Polanco, Emily McLenigan, Bilal Asad, Qi
Jiang, Anna Umstead, Lauren Harrison, James Willard, Robert Francis, Justin DeShazor, McKay Corbett, Brittany Tennant, Dominick Margiotta, and Daniel Overbeck provided outstanding research assistance.

62

In a recent paper, Gehring et al. (2018) provide some evidence that Chinese
aid indirectly increases the probability of non-lethal government repression but
they ﬁnd no evidence of a signiﬁcant increase of demonstrations, strikes, or
riots.

60

We focus on regressions including region-ﬁxed eﬀects to reduce clutter.
61
These results remain unchanged if we add Prebirthict and Postbirthict to the
regressions.
58

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Appendix A. Leader data
Table A.1
African leaders in the sample.
Country

Leader name

Entered oﬃce

Left oﬃce

ADM1 region

ADM2 region

Ethnicity

Angola
Benin
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Burundi
Burundi
Côte d’Ivoire
Côte d’Ivoire
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Comoros
Comoros
Comoros
Democratic Republic of Congo
Democratic Republic of Congo
Egypt
Egypt
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Gabon
Gambia
Ghana
Ghana
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea
Guinea
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Liberia
Liberia
Libya
Madagascar
Madagascar
Madagascar
Malawi
Malawi
Mali
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritania
Mauritania
Mauritania
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mauritius
Mauritius
Mauritius
Morocco
Mozambique
Mozambique

Jose Eduardo dos Santos
Mathieu Kerekou
Thomas Yayi Boni
Festus Mogae
Blaise Compaore
Pierre Buyoya
Pierre Nkurunziza
Domitien Ndayizeye
Alassane Ouattara
Laurent Gbagbo
Paul Biya
Jose Maria Neves
Carlos Veiga
Ange-Felix Patasse
Idriss Deby
Ikililou Dhoinine
Azali Assoumani
Ahmed Abdallah Mohamed Sambi
Azali Assoumani
Laurent-Désiré Kabila
Joseph Kabila
Mohammed Hussein Tantawi
Hosni Mubarak
Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo
Isaias Afewerki
Meles Zenawi
Omar Bongo Ondimba
Yahya Jammeh
John Evans Atta-Mills
John Agyekum Kufuor
Jerry Rawlings
Lansana Conté
Sekouba Konate
Alpha Conde
Moussa Dadis Camara
Joao Bernardo Vierira
Raimundo Pereira
Malam Bacai Sanha
Kumba Iala
Henrique Pereira Rosa
Daniel arap Moi
Mwai Kibaki
Pakalithal Mosisili
Charles Taylor
Gyude Bryant
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf
Muammar al-Gaddaﬁ
Marc Ravalomanana
Didier Ratsiraka
Andry Rajoelina
Bakili Muluzi
Bingu wa Mutharika
Alpha Oumar Konare
Amadou Toumani Toure
Ely Ould Mohamed Vall
Mohammed Ould Abdelaziz
Maaouya Ould Taya
Ba Mamadou Mbaré
Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdellahi
Navinchandra Ramgoolam
Anerood Jugnauth
Navinchandra Ramgoolam
Paul Berenger
Mohammed VI of Morocco
Armando Emilio Guebuza
Joaquim Alberto Chissano

10.09.1979
04.04.1996
06.04.2006
31.03.1998
15.10.1987
25.07.1996
26.08.2006
30.04.2003
11.04.2011
26.10.2000
06.11.1982
01.02.2001
04.04.1991
22.10.1993
02.12.1990
26.02.2011
27.05.2002
27.05.2006
30.04.1999
16.05.1997
17.01.2001
11.02.2011
14.10.1981
03.08.1979
24.05.1993
27.05.1991
28.11.1967
22.07.1994
07.01.2009
08.01.2001
31.12.1981
03.04.1984
05.12.2009
21.12.2010
23.12.2008
01.20.2005
02.03.2009
08.09.2009
18.02.2000
28.09.2003
22.08.1978
31.12.2002
29.05.1998
02.08.1997
14.10.2003
16.01.2006
01.09.1969
06.07.2002
09.02.1997
17.03.2009
21.05.1994
24.05.2004
08.06.1992
08.06.2002
03.08.2005
05.08.2009
12.12.1984
15.04.2009
19.04.2007
05.07.2005
18.09.2000
22.12.1995
30.09.2003
23.07.1999
02.02.2005
06.11.1986

ongoing
06.04.2006
ongoing
01.04.2008
ongoing
30.04.2003
ongoing
26.08.2006
ongoing
11.04.2011
ongoing
ongoing
29.07.2000
15.03.2003
ongoing
ongoing
26.05.2006
26.05.2011
21.01.2002
16.01.2001
ongoing
ongoing
11.02.2011
ongoing
ongoing
ongoing
08.06.2009
ongoing
ongoing
07.01.2009
07.01.2001
22.12.2008
21.12.2010
ongoing
05.12.2009
02.03.2009
08.09.2009
ongoing
14.09.2003
01.10.2005
30.12.2002
ongoing
ongoing
11.08.2003
16.01.2006
ongoing
23.08.2011
17.03.2009
06.07.2002
ongoing
24.05.2004
ongoing
08.06.2002
ongoing
19.04.2007
ongoing
03.08.2005
05.08.2009
06.08.2008
ongoing
30.09.2003
17.09.2000
05.07.2005
ongoing
ongoing
02.02.2005

Luanda
Atakora
Borgou
Central
Oubritenga
Bururi
Bujumbura Mairie
Kayanza
N’zi-Comoé
Fromager
Sud
Santa Catarina
São Vicente
Ouham-Pendé
Bet
Nzwani
Njazídja
Mwali
Njazídja
Katanga
Katanga
Al Qahirah
Al Minuﬁyah
Wele-Nzás
Anseba
Tigray
Haut-Ogooué
Western
Western
Ashanti
Greater Accra
Kindia
Conarky
Boké
Nzérékoré
Bissau
Oio
Oio
Cacheu
Bafatá
Rift Valley
Central
Mohale’s Hoek
Bomi
Montserrado
Montserrado
Surt
Antananarivo
Toamasina
Antananarivo
Machinga
Thyolo
Kayes
Mopti
Nouakchott
Inchiri
Adrar
Gorgol
Brakna
Port Louis
Plaines Wilhems
Port Louis
Moka
Rabat - Salé - Zemmour - Zaer
Nampula
Gaza

Maianga
Toﬀo
Tchaourou
Serowe
Ziniare
Rutovu
Roherero
Kayanza
Dimbokro
Gagnoa
Dja-et-Lobo

Kimbundu
Somba
Yoruba
Bechuanas
Mossi
Tutsi
Hutu
Hutu
Dioula
Krou (Bete)
Beti
Portugese
Portugese
Sara-Kaba
Zaghawa
Swahili
Swahili
Hadrami
Swahili
Luba
Luba
Nubian
Arab
Fang
Biher-Tigrinya
Tigray-Tigrinya
Teke
Jola
Fanti
Asante
Ewe
Susu
Mandinka
Mandinka
Kpelle
Papel

Paoua
Ennedi Ouest

Tanganika
Haut-Lomami

Asmara City
Central Tigray
Lé coni-Djoué
Brikama
Wassa West
Kumasi
Accra
Coyah
Conarky
Boké
Nzérékoré
Bissau
Mansaba
Mansaba
Bula
Bafatá
Baringo
Nyeri
Klay
Greater Monrovia
Greater Monrovia
Analamanga
Atsinanana
Analamanga
SC Chiwalo
TA Nchilamwela
Kayes
Mopti
Nouakchott
Akjoujt
Atar
Maghama
Aleg

Rabat
Murrupula
Chibuto

Mandinka
Balante
Balante
Kalenjin
Kikuyu
Basotho
Gola
Grebo
Gola
Qadhadhfa
Merina
Malagasy
Merina
Yao
Lhomwe
Bambara/Fula
Mandingo
Bidan
Bidan
Bidan
Fula
Bidan
Hindu
Hindu
Hindu
French
Arabs
Tsonga
Tsonga

(continued on next page)

59

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Table A.1 (continued)
Country

Leader name

Entered oﬃce

Left oﬃce

ADM1 region

ADM2 region

Ethnicity

Namibia
Namibia
Niger
Niger
Niger
Nigeria
Nigeria
Nigeria
Republic of the Congo
Rwanda
Senegal
Sierra Leone
Sierra Leone
South Africa
South Africa
Sudan
Swaziland
Tanzania
Tanzania
Togo
Togo
Tunisia
Tunisia
Uganda
Zambia
Zambia
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Sam Daniel Nujoma
Hiﬁkepunye Pohamba
Mahamadou Issoufou
Salou Djibo
Mamadou Tandja
Goodluck Jonathan
Olusegun Obasanjo
Umaru Musa Yar’Adua
Denis Sassou Nguesso
Paul Kagame
Abdoulaye Wade
Ahmad Tejan Kabbah
Ernest Bai Koroma
Jacob Zuma
Thabo Mbeki
Umar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir
Mswati III of Swaziland
Jakaya Kikwete
Benjamin Mkapa
Faure Gnassingbe
Gnassingbe Eyadema
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
Fouad Mebazaa
Yoweri Museveni
Frederick Chiluba
Levy Mwanawasa
Michael Sata
Robert Mugabe

21.03.1990
21.03.2005
07.04.2011
08.02.2010
22.12.1999
09.02.2010
29.05.1999
29.05.2007
15.10.1997
19.07.1994
02.04.2000
10.03.1998
17.09.2007
09.05.2009
16.06.1999
30.06.1989
25.04.1986
21.12.2005
23.11.1995
04.05.2005
14.04.1967
07.11.1987
15.01.2011
26.01.1986
02.11.1991
03.01.2002
23.09.2011
04.03.1980

21.03.2005
ongoing
ongoing
07.04.2011
08.02.2010
ongoing
29.05.2007
09.02.2010
ongoing
ongoing
ongoing
17.09.2007
ongoing
ongoing
24.09.2008
ongoing
ongoing
ongoing
21.12.2005
ongoing
05.02.2005
14.01.2011
13.12.2011
ongoing
02.01.2002
19.08.2008
ongoing
ongoing

Omusati
Ohangwena
Tahoua
Tillabéry
Diﬀa
Bayelsa
Ogun
Katsina
Cuvette
Gitarama
Louga
Eastern
Northern
KwaZulu-Natal
Eastern Cape
Northern
Manzini
Pwani
Mtwara
Maritime
Kara
Sousse
Tunis
Ntungamo
Copperbelt
Copperbelt
Northern
Harare

Okahao
Engela
Illéla
Kollo
Ma’iné-Soroa
Ogbia
Abeokuta South
Katsina (K)
Owando
Tambwe
Kébémer
Kailahun
Bombali
Nkandla
Idutywa
River Nile

Ovambo
Ovambo
Hausa
Djerma
Kanuri
Ijaw
Yoruba
Fulani
Mbochi
Tutsi
Wolof
Mende
Temne
Zulu
Xhosa
Ja’alin
Swazi
Kwere
Ngoni
Kabre
Kabre/Kabiye
Tunisia Arabs
Tunisia Arabs
Banyankole
Bemba
Lenje
Bemba
Shona

Appendix B. Additional maps

Fig. B.1 Subnational boundaries.

60

Bagamoyo
Masasi
Lacs
Kozah
Sousse Médina
Bab Souika
Ruhaama
Kitwe
Mufulira
Mpika
Harare

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Fig. B.2 China’s aid projects per subnational unit in Africa (total number of projects, 2000–11, ADM1).

61

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Fig. B.3 Value of World Bank aid projects per subnational unit in Africa (total value in million 2009 US$, 2000–11, ADM1).

62

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Fig. B.4 World Bank aid projects per subnational unit in Africa (total number of projects, 2000–11, ADM1).

Appendix C. Partial leverage plots

Fig. C.1 Table 2, column 1.

63

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Fig. C.2 Table 2, column 5.

Appendix D. Projects without locational details
Table D.1
Project location characteristics by precision of locational information.

Number of project locations
Mean loan size
Median loan size
Share of locations without data on loan size
Share of locations not completed or in implementation
Share of loans
Share of ODA

precise

imprecise

1898
236.00
35.80
26.40
17.65
40.09
51.58

1071
70.50
7.26
40.00
39.31
22.04
70.31

Notes: The table compares project locations that can be mapped to an ADM1 region
with locations where this is not possible. Speciﬁcally, “precise” project locations are
those with AidData precision code smaller than 5. “imprecise” project locations are those
larger than 4, which for example includes locations that can only be related to estimated
coordinates, projects that are country-wide or committed to larger geographic areas, or
locations that are unclear.

Appendix E. Additional regressions
Table E.1
Birth regions and China’s aid with alternative treatment of missing ﬁnancial values, OLS, ADM1 &
ADM2, 2000–11.

Birthregion
Country-year FE
Region FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
ADM1 Total

(2)
ADM2 Total

(3)
ADM1 ODA

(4)
ADM2 ODA

0.993∗∗
(0.414)
Yes
Yes
0.28
8508
709

0.281
(0.296)
Yes
Yes
0.10
70020
5835

0.531∗∗
(0.235)
Yes
Yes
0.27
8508
709

0.265
(0.251)
Yes
Yes
0.07
70020
5835

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs) in columns 1 and 2 and Chinese ODAlike ﬂows (in logs) in columns 3 and 4. Here we set the value of the ﬂows to zero if we know there
are Chinese projects in a particular ADM1 or ADM2 region but have no information about any of
their monetary amounts (while we set these values to missing in Tables 2–5). Standard errors (in
parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ , ∗ ): signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

64

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71
Table E.2
Birth regions and China’s aid, linear probability model (OLS), ADM1, 2000–11.

Birthregion
Light2000 (in logs)
Population2000 (in logs)
Capitalregion
Mines (in logs)
Oilgas
Area (in logs)
Ports
Roaddensity
Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
Total dummy

(2)
Total dummy

0.032∗
(0.018)
0.021∗∗∗
(0.007)
0.009
(0.006)
0.269∗∗∗
(0.031)
0.008∗
(0.005)
−0.000
(0.009)
0.018∗∗∗
(0.006)
−0.007
(0.013)
0.104
(0.068)
Yes
No
0.39
8508
709

0.036∗
(0.021)

Yes
Yes
0.28
8508
709

Notes: The dependent variable is a binary variable that takes a value of one if one or more
Chinese aid projects have been committed to an ADM1 region in a given year, and zero otherwise. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ , ∗ ): signiﬁcant
at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

Table E.3
Robustness to alternative clustering of the standard errors, OLS, ADM1, 2000–11.

Birthregion
Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
Cluster 1
Cluster 2
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
Total

(2)
Total

(3)
Total

(4)
Total

(5)
Total

(6)
Total

1.082∗∗
(0.423)
Yes
Yes
Country

1.082∗∗∗
(0.369)
Yes
Yes
Leader

1.082∗∗
(0.458)
Yes
Yes
ADM1

0.30
8327
709

0.30
8327
709

0.30
8327
709

1.082∗∗
(0.431)
Yes
Yes
Country
Year
0.30
8327
709

1.082∗∗
(0.465)
Yes
Yes
ADM1
Year
0.30
8327
709

1.082∗∗
(0.441)
Yes
Yes
ADM1
Country-year
0.30
8327
709

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs). Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the level indicated in
the rows “Cluster 1” and “Cluster 2.” Columns 4–6 use the Stata command “xtivreg2” that allows for two-way clustering. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ , ∗ ):
signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

Table E.4
Birth regions and average Chinese project size, OLS, ADM1 & ADM2, 2000–11.

Birthregion
Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
ADM2 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
ADM1 Project size

(2)
ADM2 Project size

0.516
(1.007)
Yes
Yes
No
0.77
586
276

0.381∗∗∗
(0.127)
Yes
No
Yes
0.83
671
428

Notes: The dependent variable is average project size, i.e., Chinese total
ﬂows divided by the number of projects in a given region-year. Standard
errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ , ∗ ): signiﬁcant
at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

65

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

Table E.5
Birth regions and heterogeneous eﬀects of China’s aid, OLS, ADM1, 2000–11.

Birthregion interacted with
Birthregion
Interaction
Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
Total

(2)
Total

(3)
Total

(4)
Total

Tenure
1.437∗∗∗
(0.510)
−0.060
(0.043)
Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

Polity
−0.467
(1.694)
2.350
(2.338)
Yes
Yes
0.30
8303
709

Bureaucracy
2.301∗∗
(0.853)
−0.822
(0.677)
Yes
Yes
0.31
6937
591

Corruption
0.375
(1.638)
0.427
(0.734)
Yes
Yes
0.31
6937
591

(5)
Total

(6)
Total

(7)
Total

(8)
Total

(9)
Total

(10)
Total

School

Oilgas
1.244∗∗
(0.518)
−0.760
(0.763)
Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

Mines
0.991
(0.932)
0.031
(0.369)
Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

UN agree.
6.138
(10.876)
−5.246
(10.882)
Yes
Yes
0.30
8187
709

UN dist.
0.768
(0.665)
1.021
(1.972)
Yes
Yes
0.30
8187
709

Light
2.113∗∗
(0.805)
0.559∗∗
(0.258)
Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

−0.040
(0.920)
0.208
(0.249)
Yes
Yes
0.31
6239
531

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs). Each regression contains an interaction term between Birthregion and the variable indicated in the respective column.
Column 10 further includes lagged light (in levels). Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ ): signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%) level.
Deﬁnitions and sources of interacted variables: Tenure: Number of years the leader is in oﬃce (with zero indicating the year of entry)–Goemans et al.’s (2009) Archigos dataset,
updated in Dreher and Yu (2016). Polity: Measure of regime authority on a 21-point scale ranging from −10 (hereditary monarchy) to +10 (consolidated democracy)–Polity
IV Project, Political Regime Characteristics and Transitions, 1800–2013, http://www.systemicpeace.org/inscrdata.html. Bureaucracy.: Quality of the bureaucracy–International
Country Risk Guide (ICRG), http://www.prsgroup.com/about-us/our-two-methodologies/icrg. Corruption: Corruption within the political system–International Country Risk Guide
(ICRG), http://www.prsgroup.com/about-us/our-two-methodologies/icrg. School: Years of schooling for total population aged 15 and over–Barro and Lee (2010). Oilgas, Mines,
and Lagged light: See main text. UN agree.: Voting similarity index (0–1) equal to (total of votes where both states agree)/(total of joint votes), computed using two-category vote
data (1 = “yes” or approval for an issue; 2 = “no” or disapproval for an issue)–Bailey et al. (2017). UN dist.: Distance between a pair of states’ foreign policy preferences based on
UNGA voting–Bailey et al. (2017).

Table E.6
Diﬀerential eﬀects across sectors, OLS, ADM1, 2000–11.

Sector
Birthregion
Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
Total

(2)
Total

(3)
Total

Social Infrastructure &
Services
0.624∗
(0.326)
Yes
Yes
0.27
8370
709

Economic Infrastructure
& Services
0.307
(0.281)
Yes
Yes
0.28
8459
709

Production Sectors
0.275∗
(0.147)
Yes
Yes
0.11
8470
709

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs) for the sector indicated in the respective column. Social
Infrastructure & Services includes Education, Health, Population Pol./Progr. & Reproductive Health, Water Supply &
Sanitation, Government & Civil Society, and Other Social Infrastructure & Services. Economic Infrastructure & Services
includes Transport & Storage, Communications, Energy, Banking & Financial Services, and Business & Other Services.
Production Sectors include Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing, Industry, Mining, Construction, Trade Policies & Regulations,
and Tourism. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗ (∗ ): signiﬁcant at the 5% (10%) level.

Table E.7
Birth regions with one-year leads and lags and China’s aid, OLS with country-year- and region-ﬁxed eﬀects,
ADM1, 2000–11.

Birthregion
Prebirth (1st year)
Postbirth (1st year)

(1)
Total

(2)
ODA

(3)
Total

(4)
ODA

1.309∗∗∗
(0.434)
0.467
(0.778)
1.471∗
(0.772)

0.593∗∗
(0.273)
−0.772
(0.584)
0.836
(0.624)

Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

Yes
Yes
0.28
8375
709

1.246∗∗∗
(0.462)
0.428
(0.788)
1.395∗
(0.799)
−0.478
(0.473)
Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

0.592∗∗
(0.276)
−0.773
(0.588)
0.835
(0.627)
−0.006
(0.656)
Yes
Yes
0.28
8375
709

Postbirth (2nd year)
Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs) in columns 1 and 3 and Chinese ODA-like
ﬂows (in logs) in columns 2 and 4. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ ,
∗ ): signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

66

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71
Table E.8
Robustness to the exclusion of various project types, OLS, ADM1, 2000–11.
Excludes projects with

(1)
Large amounts

(2)
Implementation

(3)
Loans

Birthregion

0.420∗∗
(0.205)
Yes
Yes
0.27
8008
709

0.496∗∗
(0.250)
Yes
Yes
0.27
8475
709

0.907∗∗
(0.371)
Yes
Yes
0.24
8314
709

Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

Notes: The dependent variable is (log) Chinese ﬂows, modiﬁed as indicated in the column header. Based on the descriptive
statistics reported in Appendix D, we exclude large projects (“Large amounts,” i.e., projects with commitment amounts above
the median), projects that are completed or in implementation (“Implementation”), and are loans (“Loans”). Standard errors
(in parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ , ∗ ): signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

Table E.9
Leave one country out, OLS, ADM1, 2000–11.
Regression

Country removed

Birthregion

(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)
(15)
(16)
(17)
(18)
(19)
(20)
(21)
(22)
(23)
(24)
(25)
(26)
(27)
(28)
(29)
(30)
(31)
(32)
(33)
(34)
(35)
(36)
(37)
(38)
(39)
(40)
(41)
(42)
(43)
(44)
(45)
(46)
(47)
(48)

None
AGO
BDI
BEN
BFA
BWA
CAF
CIV
CMR
COG
DJI
DZA
EGY
ERI
ETH
GAB
GHA
GIN
GMB
GNB
GNQ
KEN
LBR
LBY
LSO
MAR
MDG
MLI
MOZ
MRT
MWI
NAM
NER
NGA
RWA
SDN
SEN
SLE
SWZ
TCD
TGO
TUN
TZA
UGA
ZAF
ZAR
ZMB
ZWE

1.082∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.138∗∗
1.136∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.148∗∗∗
1.109∗∗
1.106∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.132∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.137∗∗
1.218∗∗∗
1.129∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.010∗∗
1.082∗∗
0.991∗∗
1.002∗∗
1.091∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.043∗∗
1.083∗∗
1.123∗∗
1.115∗∗
1.038∗∗
1.094∗∗
1.108∗∗
1.041∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.009∗∗
1.082∗∗
1.082∗∗
0.939∗∗
1.113∗∗
1.290∗∗∗
1.082∗∗
0.906∗∗
1.082∗∗
0.977∗∗
1.082∗∗

(0.423)
(0.423)
(0.446)
(0.441)
(0.423)
(0.424)
(0.431)
(0.425)
(0.423)
(0.423)
(0.422)
(0.423)
(0.423)
(0.422)
(0.423)
(0.427)
(0.420)
(0.437)
(0.422)
(0.449)
(0.422)
(0.425)
(0.435)
(0.426)
(0.423)
(0.423)
(0.434)
(0.437)
(0.441)
(0.461)
(0.441)
(0.442)
(0.431)
(0.447)
(0.423)
(0.423)
(0.423)
(0.428)
(0.422)
(0.423)
(0.414)
(0.430)
(0.384)
(0.424)
(0.401)
(0.423)
(0.417)
(0.423)

R-squared

Observations

0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.28
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.29
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.29
0.29
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.29
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.29
0.30
0.30
0.29
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.29
0.28
0.29

8327
8116
8129
8184
7799
8219
8123
8102
8210
8207
8267
7752
8018
8258
8206
8223
8211
8239
8255
8223
8259
8237
8150
7943
8209
8148
8264
8220
8209
8174
8020
8179
8238
7872
8214
8224
8195
8295
8279
8111
8275
8039
8031
7635
8225
8222
8223
8211

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs). All regressions include country-year- and ADM1
region-ﬁxed eﬀects. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ , ∗ ): signiﬁcant at
the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

67

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71
Table E.10
Leave one year out, OLS, ADM1, 2000–11.
Regression

Year removed

Birthregion

(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
(13)

None
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011

1.082∗∗
1.157∗∗∗
0.825∗
1.085∗∗∗
1.151∗∗
1.152∗∗
0.968∗∗
1.103∗∗
1.051∗∗
1.237∗∗∗
1.012∗∗
1.358∗∗∗
0.852∗∗

(0.423)
(0.401)
(0.474)
(0.399)
(0.486)
(0.456)
(0.446)
(0.478)
(0.424)
(0.454)
(0.407)
(0.435)
(0.393)

R-squared

Observations

0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.30
0.29
0.30
0.27
0.30
0.30
0.28
0.31

8327
7623
7627
7628
7628
7629
7628
7644
7639
7633
7642
7640
7636

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs). All regressions include country-year- and
ADM1 region-ﬁxed eﬀects. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ , ∗ ):
signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

Table E.11
Birth regions and China’s aid per capita, ADM1, 2000–11.

Birthregion
Light2000 (in logs)
Capitalregion
Mines (in logs)
Oilgas
Area (in logs)
Ports
Roaddensity
Country-year FE
ADM1 FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
Total OLS

(2)
Total PPML

(3)
ODA OLS

(4)
ODA PPML

(5)
Total OLS

(6)
Total PPML

(7)
ODA OLS

(8)
ODA PPML

0.644∗
(0.337)
−0.052
(0.133)
4.498∗∗∗
(0.563)
0.059
(0.091)
0.272
(0.175)
−0.097
(0.119)
0.008
(0.245)
0.768
(1.148)
Yes
No
0.38
8327
709

1.081∗∗
(0.439)
−0.018
(0.217)
1.525∗∗
(0.739)
−0.015
(0.206)
−0.464
(0.708)
−0.201
(0.202)
0.825
(1.120)
0.518
(1.179)
Yes
No

0.233
(0.229)
−0.131
(0.139)
3.193∗∗∗
(0.480)
−0.059
(0.073)
0.299∗∗
(0.137)
−0.181
(0.126)
−0.076
(0.209)
0.750
(1.007)
Yes
No
0.37
8375
709

1.022∗
(0.527)
−0.145
(0.293)
2.763∗∗∗
(0.918)
0.005
(0.240)
−0.581
(0.651)
−0.422
(0.266)
−1.603∗∗
(0.801)
3.754
(2.535)
Yes
No

1.082∗∗
(0.423)

0.697
(0.734)

0.569∗∗
(0.252)

3.178∗∗
(1.319)

Yes
Yes
0.30
8327
709

Yes
Yes

Yes
Yes
0.28
8375
709

Yes
Yes

8327
709

8375
709

8327
709

8375
709

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows per capita (in logs) in columns 1 and 5, Chinese total ﬂows per capita (in levels) in columns 2 and
6, Chinese ODA-like ﬂows per capita (in logs) in columns 3 and 7, and Chinese ODA-like ﬂows per capita (in levels) in columns 4 and 8. We divide by
Population2000 to obtain these per-capita values, omitting Population2000 from the set of control variables. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at
the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ , ∗ ): signiﬁcant at the 1% (5%, 10%) level.

Appendix F. Ethnic regions
We expect that political favoritism related to the allocation of Chinese funding is not limited to the subnational administrative units in which
political leaders were born. Political leaders might also want people from their own ethnic group to beneﬁt disproportionately from development
projects. If this is true, it implies that one should examine a wider set of locations with inhabitants that share the ethnicity of the current political
leader. To identify the possibility of ethnic favoritism in the allocation of Chinese funding, we change the unit of observation from subnational
administrative units to ethnic regions (GREG regions, see Weidmann et al., 2010) within a country.
We begin this analysis at the level of ethnic regions by estimating a variant of Equation (1) (which does not control for region-ﬁxed eﬀects)
where we replace Birthregionict by Ethnicregionict . The results in Table F.1 suggest that regions populated by individuals with the same ethnicity as
the current political leader are more likely to receive support from China (columns 1 and 2). The coeﬃcients of the control variables follow a similar
pattern as the results based on ADM1 regions. Richer ethnic regions (again measured by the level of nighttime light intensity in 2000) and ethnic
regions that include the country’s capital receive more Chinese funding compared to other regions.
Columns 3 and 4 replicate the regressions for the geographic regions populated by the ethnic groups of political leaders, where we now include
ﬁxed eﬀects for ethnic rather than administrative regions. Using this more conservative speciﬁcation, we ﬁnd no evidence that the political leaders’
ethnic regions receive signiﬁcantly more funding from China.63 We oﬀer four speculative explanations for these insigniﬁcant results that stand in
contrast to our ﬁndings for leaders’ birth regions. First, the larger size of the ethnic regions compared to administrative regions reduces variation over
time, making it more diﬃcult to identify the eﬀect with the inclusion of region-ﬁxed eﬀects. Second, the substantially lower number of development
projects that we are able to assign to ethnic regions compared to administrative regions increases noise, again making the identiﬁcation of signiﬁcant

63
These results remain unchanged if we add Preethnicict and Postethnicict to the regressions, deﬁned in analogy to the Prebirthict and Postbirthict indicators above.
They also hold for World Bank ﬁnancing.

68

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

eﬀects more diﬃcult. Third, the number of changes in the ethnic groups of political leaders is smaller than the number of changes in leader birth
regions. Fourth, political leaders might not steer Chinese funding to their ethnic groups. This ﬁnal reason would be in line with Ahlerup and
Isaksson (2015: 144), who present evidence that “ethnic and regional [favoritism] are not the same, but rather have independent eﬀects that exist
in parallel.”
Table F.1
Ethnic regions and China’s aid, OLS, GREG, 2000–11.

Ethnicregion
Light2000 (in logs)
Population2000 (in logs)
Capitalregion
Mines (in logs)
Oilgas
Area (in logs)
Ports
Roaddensity
Country-year FE
Ethnic region FE
R-squared
Observations
Regions

(1)
Total

(2)
ODA

(3)
Total

(4)
ODA

1.020∗∗∗
(0.353)
0.227∗∗∗
(0.076)
0.016
(0.077)
4.682∗∗∗
(0.664)
0.233
(0.165)
−0.138
(0.426)
0.139
(0.086)
0.201
(0.443)
0.986
(1.810)
Yes
No
0.35
6578
559

0.524∗
(0.285)
0.119∗∗
(0.051)
−0.022
(0.050)
3.495∗∗∗
(0.552)
0.188
(0.146)
−0.256
(0.274)
0.045
(0.052)
0.023
(0.327)
0.299
(0.791)
Yes
No
0.33
6606
559

0.184
(0.477)

−0.064

Yes
Yes
0.19
6602
559

Yes
Yes
0.20
6630
559

(0.319)

Notes: The dependent variable is Chinese total ﬂows (in logs) in columns 1 and 3, and Chinese ODA-like
ﬂows (in logs) in columns 2 and 4. Standard errors (in parentheses) clustered at the country level. ∗∗∗ (∗∗ , ∗ ):
signiﬁcant at the 1% (5,% 10%) level.

Appendix G. Acknowledgements
This paper beneﬁted from comments made by conference participants at the Convening of the AidData Research Consortium at the College of
William & Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia (January 2014), the Annual Conference of the International Political Economy Society in Washington,
DC (November 2014), the Inaugural Sheﬃeld Workshop in Political Economy at the University of Sheﬃeld (February 2015), the European Public
Choice Society Meeting at the University of Groningen, the IMF Conference on Financing for Development at the Graduate Institute of International
and Development Studies in Geneva (April 2015), the International Conference on Globalization and Development at the University of Goettingen
(May 2015), the Annual Conference of the Verein für Socialpolitik Research Committee Development Economics at the Kiel Institute for the World
Economy, the Nordic Conference on Development Economics at the University of Copenhagen (June 2015), the Silvaplana Workshop on Political
Economy (July 2015), the European Economic Association Meeting at the University of Mannheim (August 2015), the Annual Conference on the
Political Economy of International Organizations at the University of Utah (January 2016), the CSAE Conference “Economic Development in Africa”
at the University of Oxford (March 2016), the Development Economics Conference “Goettinger Schule” at the University of Goettingen (June 2016),
the Workshop on “Global Challenges” at the Università degli Studi di Milano Bicocca (June 2016), the China Economics Summer Institute at the
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (August 2016), the Annual Meeting of the American Political Science Association in Philadelphia,
the Frisch-PRIO Workshop on Foreign Aid in Oslo (September 2016), the Scientiﬁc Conference of the European Development Network at the
University of Bonn (December 2016), the BNUBS-GATE Workshop at Heidelberg University (July 2017), and the Annual Meeting of the American
Political Science Association in San Francisco (September 2017).
We are also grateful for comments received at research seminars at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London (October
2014), NHH Bergen, the University of Bergen, KOF Zurich (November 2014), Heidelberg University (December 2014), the University of York (February 2015), the University of Mannheim, the ESG Management School Paris, Université de Fribourg (March 2015), the University of Gothenburg
(April 2015), Goethe University Frankfurt, the Norwegian Business School in Oslo (May 2015), the Research Institute of Industrial Economics in
Stockholm (September 2015), the Université libre de Bruxelles, the University of Kiel (January 2016), the University of Geneva (February 2016),
Deakin University, the University of Melbourne (March 2016), Villanova University (September 2016), the University of Western Australia, the
University of Passau (October 2016), the Helmut Schmidt University Hamburg, the University of Duisburg-Essen (January 2017), University of
Mannheim (March 2017), the University of Goettingen (July 2017), the Development Economics Network Berlin (November 2017), Sapienza University of Rome (December 2017), the University of Potsdam (January 2018), DIAL Paris (June 2018), the University of Siegen (January 2019), the
University of Kiel (January 2019), the University of Essex (March 2019), and IE University Madrid (March 2019).
Appendix H. Supplementary data
Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdeveco.2019.04.003.

69

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71

References

DiLorenzo, Matthew, Cheng, Mengfan, 2019. Political turnover and Chinese
development cooperation. Chin. J. Int. Polit. 12 (1), 123–151.
Do, Quoc-Anh, Nguyen, Kieu-Trang, Tran, Anh N., 2017. One Mandarin beneﬁts the
whole clan: hometown favoritism in an authoritarian regime. Am. Econ. J. Appl.
Econ. 9 (4), 1–29.
Dornan, Matthew, Brant, Philippa, 2014. Chinese assistance in the Paciﬁc: agency,
eﬀectiveness and the role of Paciﬁc island governments. Asia Paciﬁc Pol. Stud. 1 (2),
349–363.
Dreher, Axel, Fuchs, Andreas, 2015. Rogue aid? An empirical analysis of China’s aid
allocation. Can. J. Econ. 48 (3), 988–1023.
Dreher, Axel, Fuchs, Andreas, Hodler, Roland, Parks, Bradley, Raschky, Paul, Tierney,
Michael J., 2016. Aid on Demand: African Leaders and the Geography of China’s
Foreign Assistance. AidData Working Paper 3 (revised). AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Dreher, Axel, Fuchs, Andreas, Parks, Bradley, Strange, Austin M., Tierney, Michael J.,
2018. Apples and dragon fruits: the determinants of aid and other forms of state
ﬁnancing from China to Africa. Int. Stud. Q. 62, 182–194.
Dreher, Axel, Lohmann, Steﬀen, 2015. Aid and growth at the regional level. Oxf. Rev.
Econ. Pol. 31 (3–4), 420–446.
Dreher, Axel, Nunnenkamp, Peter, Thiele, Rainer, 2011. Are ‘new’ donors diﬀerent?
Comparing the allocation of bilateral aid between nonDAC and DAC donor
countries. World Dev. 39 (11), 1950–1968.
Dreher, Axel, Sturm, Jan-Egbert, Vreeland, James, 2009. Development aid and
international politics: does membership on the UN security Council inﬂuence World
Bank decisions? J. Dev. Econ. 88 (1), 1–18.
Dreher, Axel, Yu, Shu, 2016. The Alma Mater Eﬀect. Does Foreign Education of Political
Leaders Inﬂuence Foreign Policy? CEPR Discussion Paper No. 11450.
Dreher, Axel, Fuchs, Andreas, Hodler, Roland, Parks, Bradley C., Raschky, Paul A., 2019.
Is Favoritism a Threat to Chinese Aid Eﬀectiveness? A Subnational Analysis of
Chinese Development Projects. Working Paper.
Eichenauer, Vera Z., Fuchs, Andreas, Brückner, Lutz, 2018. The Eﬀects of Trade, Aid and
Investment on China’s Image in Developing Countries. University of Heidelberg
Department of Economics Discussion Paper Series No. 646. Heidelberg University,
Heidelberg, Germany.
Engelsma, Brian, Milner, Helen V., Shi, Weiyi, 2017. Political competition in recipient
countries and the allocation of Chinese aid: evidence from Kenya and Zambia. In:
Paper Prepared for the Tracking International Aid and Investment from Developing
and Emerging Economies Workshop, Heidelberg University, 2017.
Faye, Michael, Niehaus, Paul, 2012. Political aid cycles. Am. Econ. Rev. 102 (7),
3516–3530.
Figueiredo, Octavio, Guimaraes, Paulo, Woodward, Douglas, 2015. Industry
concentration, distance decay, and knowledge spillovers: following the patent paper
trail. J. Urban Econ. 89, 21–31.
Findley, Michael G., Powell, Josh, Strandow, Daniel, Tanner, Jeﬀ, 2011. The localized
geography of foreign aid: a new dataset and application to violent armed conﬂict.
World Dev. 39 (11), 1995–2009.
Francois, Patrick, Rainer, Ilia, Trebbi, Francesco, 2015. How is power shared in Africa?
Econometrica 83 (2), 465–503.
Francken, Nathalie, Minten, Bart, Swinnen, Johan F.M., 2012. The political economy of
relief aid allocation: evidence from Madagascar. World Dev. 40 (3), 486–500.
Frey, Bruno S., Schneider, Friedrich, 1986. Competing models of international lending
activity. J. Dev. Econ. 20 (3), 225–245.
Fuchs, Andreas, Müller, Angelika, 2018. Democracy and Aid Donorship. Kiel Working
Paper No. 2113. Kiel Institute for the World Economy, Kiel, Germany.
Fuchs, Andreas, Vadlamannati, Krishna Chaitanya, 2013. The needy donor: an empirical
analysis of India’s aid motives. World Dev. 44, 110–128.
Gehring, Kai, Kaplan, Lennart, Wong, Melvin H., 2018. Aid and Conﬂict at the
Subnational Level—Evidence from World Bank and Chinese Development Projects
in Africa. University of Heidelberg Department of Economics Discussion Paper 657.
Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
Goemans, Hein E., Gleditsch, Kristian S., Chiozza, Giacomo, 2009. Introducing Archigos:
a data set of political leaders. J. Peace Res. 46 (2), 269–283.
Guimaraes, Paulo, Portugal, Pedro, 2010. A simple feasible alternative procedure to
estimate models with high-dimensional ﬁxed eﬀects. STATA J. 10 (4), 628–649.
Hamdi, Abdelrahim, 2005. Al-waraqa Al-Iqtisā diyya Li’l-Mu’tamar Alwatani Al-Hā kim
Bi’l-Sudan (The Economic Paper for the ruling National Congress: Future of Foreign
Investment in Sudan). Unpublished Manuscript. Khartoum, Sudan.
Henderson, Vernon J., Storeygard, Adam, Weil, David N., 2012. Measuring economic
growth from outer space. Am. Econ. Rev. 102 (2), 994–1028.
Hendrix, Cullen, Noland, Marcus, 2014. Confronting the Curse: the Economics and
Geopolitics of Natural Resource Governance. Peterson Institute for International
Economics, Washington, DC.
Hernandez, Diego, 2017. Are “new” donors challenging World Bank conditionality?
World Dev. 96, 529–549.
Hodler, Roland, Raschky, Paul A., 2014a. Regional favoritism. Q. J. Econ. 129 (2),
995–1033.
Hodler, Roland, Raschky, Paul A., 2014b. Economic shocks and civil conﬂict at the
regional level. Econ. Lett. 124 (3), 530–533.
Horowitz, Jeremy, Long, James, 2016. Strategic voting, information, and ethnicity in
emerging democracies: evidence from Kenya. Elect. Stud. 44, 351–361.
Hsiang, Solomon, Sekar, Nitin, 2016. Does Legalization Reduce Black Market Activity?
Evidence from a Global Ivory Experiment and Elephant Poaching Data. NBER
Working Paper 22314. NBER, Cambridge, MA.

Acemoglu, Daron, Robinson, James, February 27, 2012. Fancy Schools. Why Nations
Fail Blog. Available at: http://whynationsfail.com/blog/2012/2/27/fancy-schools.
html. (Accessed 24 February 2015).
Acht, Martin, Mahmoud, Toman Omar, Thiele, Rainer, 2015. Corrupt governments do
not receive more state-to-state aid: governance and the delivery of foreign aid
through non-state actors. J. Dev. Econ. 114, 20–33.
African Development Bank (AfDB), Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United
Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), 2011. African Economic
Outlook 2011. AfDB, Tunis, Tunisia. Available at: http://www.afdb.org/ﬁleadmin/
uploads/afdb/Documents/Generic-Documents/Media_Embargoed_Content/ENAEO_2011_embargo%206%20Juin.pdf. (Accessed 1 November 2014).
AidData, 2015. Geocoded Data from the World Bank IBRD-IDA. Available at: http://
aiddata.org. Version 1.0(Accessed 14 January 2015).
Ahlerup, Pelle, Isaksson, Ann-Soﬁe, 2015. Ethno-Regional Favouritism in Sub-Saharan
Africa. Kyklos 68 (2), 143–152.
Alesina, Alberto, Dollar, David, 2000. Who gives foreign aid to whom and why? J. Econ.
Growth 5 (1), 33–63.
Bailey, Michael, Strezhnev, Anton, Voeten, Erik, 2017. Estimating dynamic state
preferences from United Nations voting data. J. Conﬂict Resol. 61 (2), 430–456.
Barkan, Joel D., Chege, Michael, 1989. Decentralising the state: district focus and the
politics of reallocation in Kenya. J. Mod. Afr. Stud. 27 (3), 431–453.
Barro, Robert, Lee, Jong-Wha, 2010. A New Data Set of Educational Attainment in the
World, 1950–2010. J. Dev. Econ. 104, 184–198.
Beck, Thorsten, Clarke, George, Groﬀ, Alberto, Keefer, Philip, Walsh, Patrick, 2001. New
tools in comparative political economy: the database of political institutions. World
Bank Econ. Rev. 15 (1), 165–176.
BenYishay, Ariel, Parks, Bradley, Runfola, Daniel, Trichler, Rachel, 2016. Forest Cover
Impacts of Chinese Development Projects in Ecologically Sensitive Areas. AidData
Working Paper 32. AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Bräutigam, Deborah, November 1, 2011. Testimony on China’s Growing Role in Africa
before the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations Subcommittee on
African Aﬀairs. Available at: http://www.foreign.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/
Deborah_Brautigam_Testimony.pdf. (Accessed 24 February 2015).
Bräutigam, Deborah, 2012. China in Africa: investors, not infesters. China Econ. Q. 16
(3), 22–27.
Brazys, Samuel, Elkink, Johan A., Kelly, Gina, 2017. Bad neighbors? How Co-located
Chinese and World Bank development projects impact local corruption in Tanzania.
Rev. Int. Org. 12, 227–253.
Briggs, Ryan C., 2012. Electrifying the base? Aid and incumbent advantage in Ghana. J.
Mod. Afr. Stud. 50 (4), 603–624.
Briggs, Ryan C., 2014. Aiding and abetting: project aid and ethnic politics in Kenya.
World Dev. 64, 194–205.
Bruederle, Anna, Hodler, Roland, 2018. Nighttime lights as a proxy for human
development at the local level. PLoS One 13 (9), 1–22.
Bueno de Mesquita, Bruce, Smith, Alastair, Silverson, Randolph M., Morrow, James D.,
2003. The Logic of Political Survival. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.
Burgess, Robin, Jedwab, Remi, Miguel, Edward, Morjaria, Ameet, Padró i Miquel,
Gerard, 2015. The value of democracy: evidence from road building in Kenya. Am.
Econ. Rev. 105 (6), 1817–1851.
Casey, Katherine, 2015. Crossing party lines: the eﬀects of information on redistributive
politics. Am. Econ. Rev. 105 (8), 2410–2448.
Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN), 2013. Global
Roads Open Access Data Set, Version 1 (gROADSv1). Columbia University, and
Information Technology Outreach Services—ITOS—University of Georgia. NASA
Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC), Palisades, NY. Available at:
https://doi.org/10.7927/H4VD6WCT.
Chen, Chuan, Orr, Ryan, 2009. Chinese contractors in Africa: home government support,
coordination mechanisms, and market entry strategies. J. Constr. Eng. Manag. 1135
(11), 1201–1210.
Clemens, Michael, Kremer, Michael, 2016. The new role for the World Bank. J. Econ.
Perspect. 30 (1), 53–76.
Cohen, John M., 1995. Ethnicity, Foreign Aid, and Economic Growth in Sub-saharan
Africa: the Case of Kenya. HIID Development Paper No. 520. Harvard Institute for
International Development, Cambridge, MA.
Corkin, Lucy, 2011. Redeﬁning foreign policy impulses toward Africa: the roles of the
MFA, the MOFCOM and China Exim Bank. J. Curr. Chin. Aﬀ. 40 (4), 61–90.
Cruz, Cesi, Schneider, Christina J., 2017. Foreign aid and undeserved credit claiming.
Am. J. Pol. Sci. 61 (2), 396–408.
Cruz, Cesi, Keefer, Philip, Labonne, Julien, 2018a. Buying Informed Voters: New Eﬀects
of Information on Voters and Candidates. Working Paper.
Cruz, Cesi, Keefer, Philip, Labonne, Julien, Trebbi, Francesco, 2018b. Making Policies
Matter: Voter Responses to Campaign Promises. NBER Working Paper 24785. NBER,
Cambridge, MA.
Davies, Martyn, Edinger, Hannah, Tay, Nastasya, Naidu, Sanusha, 2008. How China
Delivers Development Assistance to Africa. Centre for Chinese Studies. University of
Stellenbosch, Stellenbosch, South Africa.
Davies, Ronald B., Klasen, Stephan, 2019. Darlings and orphans: interactions across
donors in international aid. Scand. J. Econ. 121 (1), 243–277.
Deininger, Klaus, Squire, Lyn, Basu, Swati, 1998. Does economic analysis improve the
quality of foreign assistance? World Bank Econ. Rev. 12 (3), 385–418.
De Luca, Giacomo, Hodler, Roland, Raschky, Paul A., Valsecchi, Michele, 2018. Ethnic
favoritism: an axiom of politics? J. Dev. Econ. 132, 115–129.

70

A. Dreher et al.

Journal of Development Economics 140 (2019) 44–71
Naím, Moisés, 14 February 2007. Rogue Aid. Foreign Policy.
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), 2011. World Port Index (Pub 150).
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, Springﬁeld, VA. Available at: http://msi.
nga.mil/NGAPortal.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), 2014. Version 4 DMSP-OLS
Nighttime Lights Time Series. National Geophysical Data Center, Boulder, CO,
(Accessed 5 April 2014).
Nielson, Daniel L., Parks, Bradley, Tierney, Michael J., 2017. International organizations
and development ﬁnance: introduction to the special issue. Rev. Int. Org. 12 (2),
157–169.
Nissanke, Machiko, Söderberg, Marie, 2011. The Changing Landscape in Aid
Relationships in Africa: Can China’s Engagement Make a Diﬀerence to African
Development. UI paper series 2011/2. Swedish Institute for International Aﬀairs,
Stockholm, Sweden.
Nunnenkamp, Peter, Öhler, Hannes, Sosa Andrés, Maximiliano, 2017. Need, merit and
politics in multilateral aid allocation: a district-level analysis of World Bank projects
in India. Rev. Dev. Econ. 21 (1), 126–156.
OECD, 2015. Making Development Co-operation Fit for the Future: A Survey of Partner
Countries. OECD Development Co-operation Working Paper No. 20. OECD, Paris,
France. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1787/5js6b25hzv7h-en.
Öhler, Hannes, Nunnenkamp, Peter, 2014. Needs-based targeting or favoritism? The
regional allocation of multilateral aid within recipient countries. Kyklos 67 (3),
420–446.
Padró i Miquel, Gerard, 2007. The control of politicians in divided societies: the politics
of fear. Rev. Econ. Stud. 74 (4), 1259–1274.
Reisen, Helmut, Stijns, Jean-Philippe, 2011. Emerging Partners Create Policy Space for
Africa. VoxEU.org. Available at: http://www.voxeu.org/article/how-emergingdonors-are-creating-policy-space-africa. (Accessed 1 November 2014).
Reuters, 22 July 2018. China’s Xi Oﬀers Fresh $295 Million Grant to Sri Lanka.
Robinson, James A., Torvik, Ragnar, 2016. Endogenous parliamentarism. J. Eur. Econ.
Assoc. 14 (4), 907–942.
Roessler, Phillip, 2013. Chinese Development Finance and Strategies of Political (And
Territorial Survival in Sudan. The First Tranche. Available at: http://aiddata.org/
blog/chinese-development-ﬁnance-and-strategies-of-political-and-territorialsurvival-in-sudan. (Accessed 27 August 2016).
Santos Silva, João M.C., Tenreyro, Silvana, 2006. The log of gravity. Rev. Econ. Stat. 88
(4), 641–658.
State Council, 2014. China’s Foreign Aid. Beijing. Information Oﬃce of the State
Council, China. Available at: http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/china/2014-07/
10/c_133474011.htm. (Accessed 1 November 2014).
Strandow, Daniel, Findley, Michael, Nielson, Daniel, Powell, Josh, 2011. The
UCDP-AidData Codebook on Geo-Referencing Foreign Aid. Uppsala Conﬂict Data
Program. Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden, Version 1.1.
Strange, Austin M., Dreher, Axel, Fuchs, Andreas, Parks, Bradley, Tierney, Michael J.,
2017. Tracking under-reported ﬁnancial ﬂows: China’s development ﬁnance and the
aid-conﬂict nexus revisited. J. Conﬂ. Resolut. 61 (5), 935–963.
Strange, Austin M., O’Donnell, Brian, Gamboa, Daniel, Parks, Bradley, Perla, Charles,
2014. AidData’s Methodology for Tracking Under-reported Financial Flows.
AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), 2005. Mineral Resources Data System. U.S. Geological
Survey, Reston, VA.
Verhoeven, Harry, 2015. Water, Civilisation and Power in Sudan. Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge, UK.
van de Walle, Nicolas, 2007. Meet the new boss, same as the old boss? The evolution of
political clientelism in Africa. In: Herbert, K., Steven, I.W. (Eds.), Patrons, Clients,
and Policies. Cambridge University Press, New York, NY, pp. 60–67.
Wahman, Michael, Boone, Catherine, 2018. Captured countryside? Stability and change
in sub-national support for African incumbent parties. Comp. Pol. 50 (2), 189–216.
Wantchekon, Leonard, 2003. Clientelism and voting behavior: evidence from a ﬁeld
experiment in Benin. World Polit. 55 (3), 399–422.
Warner, Andrew, 2010. Cost-Beneﬁt Analysis in World Bank Projects. Independent
Evaluation Group of the World Bank, Washington, DC.
Weidmann, Nils B., Rød, Jan Ketil, Cederman, Lars-Erik, 2010. Representing ethnic
groups in space: a new dataset. J. Peace Res. 47 (4), 491–499.
World Bank, 1994. Operational policy (OP) 10.04: economic evaluation of investment
Operations. In: World Bank Operational Manual: Operational Policies. World Bank,
Washington, DC.
World Bank, 2013. A Poverty Proﬁle for Sierra Leone. World Bank, Washington DC.
Zhu, Xiao’ou, 2015. Demystifying the role of Chinese commercial actors in the shaping
China’s foreign assistance: the case of post-war Sri Lanka. Stabil. Int. J. Secur. Dev. 4
(1), 24.

Ichino, Nahomi, Nathan, Noah L., 2013. Crossing the line: local ethnic geography and
voting in Ghana. Am. Pol. Sci. Rev. 107 (2), 344–361.
Inveen, Cooper, October 20, 2017. President’s Iron-Fist Methods Raise Fears for Future
of Democracy in Sierra Leone. The Guardian.
Isaksson, Ann-Soﬁe, Kotsadam, Andreas, 2018a. Chinese aid and local corruption. J.
Public Econ. 159, 146–159.
Isaksson, Ann-Soﬁe, Kotsadam, Andreas, 2018b. Racing to the bottom? Chinese
development projects and trade union involvement in Africa. World Dev. 106 (C),
284–298.
Jablonski, Ryan S., 2014. How aid targets votes: the impact of electoral incentives on
foreign aid distribution. World Polit. 66 (2), 293–330.
Jansson, Johanna, 2013. The sicomines agreement revisited: Prudent Chinese banks and
risk-taking Chinese companies. Rev. Afr. Polit. Econ. 40 (135), 152–162.
Jenkins, Glenn P., 1997. Project analysis and the World Bank. Am. Econ. Rev. 87 (2),
38–42.
Khomba, Daniel C., Trew, Alex, 2017. Aid and Growth in Malawi. AidData Working
Paper 42. AidData, Williamsburg, VA.
Kilama, Eric, 2016. Evidences on donors competition in Africa: traditional donors versus
China? J. Int. Dev. 28 (4), 528–551.
Kimenyi, Mwangi S., 2006. Ethnicity, governance and the provision of public goods. J.
Afr. Econ. 15, 62–99.
Kilby, Christopher, 2009. The political economy of conditionality: an empirical analysis
of World Bank loan disbursements. J. Dev. Econ. 89 (1), 51–61.
Kilby, Christopher, 2017. What we don’t know: incorporating data uncertainty into aid
allocation models. In: Paper Prepared for the Tracking International Aid and
Investment from Developing and Emerging Economies Workshop. Heidelberg
University.
Kragelund, Paul, 2011. Emerging Partners and Governance: Does the Rise of Emerging
Partnerships Increase Ownership of Development Policies and Widen the Policy
Space for African Governments? Special African Economic Outlook 2011 Paper.
OECD Development Centre, Paris, France.
Kramon, Eric, 2017. Money for Votes: the Causes and Consequences of Electoral
Clientelism in Africa. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.
Kuziemko, Ilyana, Werker, Eric, 2006. How much is a seat on the security Council
worth? Foreign aid and bribery at the United Nations. J. Political Econ. 114 (5),
905–930.
Labonne, Julien, 2016. Local political business cycles: evidence from Philippine
municipalities. J. Dev. Econ. 121, 56–62.
Li, Xiaojun, 2017. Does conditionality still work? China’s development assistance and
democracy in Africa. Chin. Polit. Sci. Rev. 2 (2), 201–220.
Lujala, Päivi, Rød, Jan Ketil, Thieme, Nadia, 2007. Fighting over oil: introducing a new
dataset. Conﬂict Manag. Peace Sci. 24 (3), 239–256.
Maizels, Alfred, Nissanke, Machiko K., 1984. Motivations for aid to developing
countries. World Dev. 12 (9), 879–900.
Martorano, Bruno, Metzger, Laura, Sanﬁlippo, Marco, 2018. Chinese Development
Assistance and Household Welfare in Sub-saharan Africa. UNU-MERIT Working
Paper 2018-012. UNU-MERIT, Maastricht, Netherlands.
Marty, Robert, Dolan, Carrie, Leu, Mattias, Runfola, Daniel, 2017. Taking the health aid
debate to the sub-national level: the impact and allocation of foreign health aid in
Malawi. BMJ Glob. Health 2 e000129.
Marty, Robert, Goodman, Seth, LeFew, Michael, Dolan, Carrie, BenYishay, Ariel,
Runfola, Dan, 2019. Assessing the causal impact of Chinese aid on vegetative land
cover in Burundi and Rwanda under conditions of spatial imprecision. Dev. Eng. 4
100038.
Marx, Benjamin, 2017. Elections as Incentives: Project Completion and Visibility in
African Politics. Working Paper.
Masaki, Takaaki, 2018. The political economy of aid allocation in Africa: evidence from
Zambia. Afr. Stud. Rev. 61 (1), 55–82.
McKinlay, Robert D., Little, Richard, 1977. A foreign policy model of US bilateral aid
allocation. World Polit. 30 (1), 58–86.
Michalopoulos, Stelios, Papaioannou, Elias, 2013. Pre-colonial ethnic institutions and
contemporary African development. Econometrica 81 (1), 113–152.
Michalopoulos, Stelios, Papaioannou, Elias, 2014. National institutions and subnational
development in Africa. Q. J. Econ. 129 (1), 151–213.
Moser, Christine, 2008. Poverty reduction, patronage or vote buying? The allocation of
public goods and the 2001 election in Madagascar. Econ. Dev. Cult. Change 57 (1),
137–162.
Mu, Ren, Zhang, Xiaobo, 2014. Do elected leaders in a limited democracy have real
power? Evidence from rural China. J. Dev. Econ. 107 (C), 17–27.
Muchapondwa, Edwin, Nielson, Daniel, Parks, Bradley, Strange, Austin M., Tierney,
Michael J., 2016. ‘Ground-Truthing’ Chinese development ﬁnance in Africa: ﬁeld
evidence from South Africa and Uganda. J. Dev. Stud. 52 (6), 780–796.

71

